
  [ Transcriber's Note:
    Every effort has been made to replicate this text as faithfully as
    possible; changes (corrections of spelling and punctuation) made to
    the original text are listed at the end of this file.
  ]




                                  NEW
                           VEGETARIAN DISHES


                                  BY
                             MRS. BOWDICH

              AUTHOR OF "CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH MOTHERS"


                            WITH PREFACE BY

                           ERNEST BELL, M.A.
              TREASURER OF THE LONDON VEGETARIAN SOCIETY



                                LONDON
              GEORGE BELL & SONS, YORK ST., COVENT GARDEN
                             AND NEW YORK
                                 1892


         CHISWICK PRESS:--C. WHITTINGHAM AND CO., TOOKS COURT,
                            CHANCERY LANE.




PREFACE.


There are already a good many vegetarian cookery books, ranging in
price from one penny to half-a-crown, but yet, when I am asked, as not
unfrequently happens, to recommend such a book, I know of only one which
at all fulfils the requirements, and even that one is, I find, rather
severely criticised by ladies who know anything about the matter.

To have to live by some of them would almost make a vegetarian turn
meat-eater. Most are compilations from other books with the meat dishes
left out, and a little porridge and a few beans and peas thrown in. All
of them, I believe, contain a lot of puddings and sweets, which certainly
are vegetarian, but which can be found in any ordinary cookery book.

What is required is a book that will enable us to provide something to
take the place of meat, which, while nourishing, shall at the same time
be palatable. This the present book aims at doing. Of the 221 recipes
given, upwards of 200 are absolutely original, having been carefully
thought out and tested by the author herself, and not hitherto published
anywhere. Many of them are as nourishing, weight for weight, as ordinary
dishes made with meat, those containing beans, peas, eggs, and the
various sorts of grain, being the most nourishing. If they are not all
found to be palatable, the fault must be in the individual cook, who
cannot have put in the important ingredient of _feeling_, without which
no work can be wholly good.

The thorough-going vegetarian, to whom abstinence from meat is part of
his ethical code and his religion,--who would as soon think of taking
his neighbour's purse as helping himself to a slice of beef,--is by
nature a man of frugal habits and simple tastes. He _prefers_ a plain
diet, and knows that the purest enjoyment is to be found in fruits of
all kinds as nature supplies them. He needs but little cookery, and that
of the simplest. To him this book will be of little use, except when he
wishes to entertain his friends.

But there are others who, while not feeling that any moral principle
is immediately involved in the matter of diet, yet would like to be
relieved from the necessity of eating flesh, possibly on æsthetic
grounds, or it may be from hygienic reasons, or in some cases, I hope,
because they would willingly diminish the sufferings involved in the
transport and slaughter of animals, inevitable as long as they are used
for food. To these it is hoped that this little book may act as an
encouragement and help.

Nor need our carnivorous friends be afraid of it. A good deal of nonsense
is talked (by meat-eaters I mean, of course) about the properties of
food, and they would have us believe that they eat a beef-steak mainly
because it contains 21.5 per cent. of nitrogen. But we know better. They
have eaten steaks for many years, but it was only last week, in working
up for a debate, that they found out about the nitrogen. It is not the
chemical ingredients which determine the diet, but the _flavour_; and it
is quite remarkable, when some tasty vegetarian dishes are on the table,
how soon the percentages of nitrogen are forgotten, and how far a small
piece of meat will go. If this little book shall succeed in thus weaning
away a few from a custom which is bad--bad for the suffering creatures
that are butchered--bad for the class set apart to be the slaughterers--bad
for the consumers physically, in that it produces disease, and morally,
in that it tends to feed the lower and more ferocious qualities of mind,
and also for ever prevents our treating the animal creation with that
_courtesy_ (as Sir Arthur Helps put it) which is their due--then I know
that it will not have wholly failed in carrying out the author's
benevolent intention.

                                                    ERNEST BELL.




NEW VEGETARIAN DISHES.




GENERAL HINTS.


Haricot Beans.

Among the pulses there is none more nourishing, more generally liked,
nor more useful to the vegetarian cook than the haricot bean. Whether on
account of its refined flavour, its delicate colour, its size, or last,
but not least, its cheapness, I do not hesitate to place it first. Like
the potato, however, its very simplicity lays it open to careless
treatment, and many who would be the first to appreciate its good
qualities if it were placed before them well cooked and served, now
recoil from the idea of habitually feeding off what they know only under
the guise of a stodgy, insipid, or watery mass. A few hints, therefore,
respecting the best manner of preparing this vegetable may be useful.

Firstly, the beans should invariably be washed and placed in a basin of
cold water the night before they are required for use, and should remain
in soak about ten or twelve hours. If left longer than this during hot
weather they are apt to turn sour.

They should not be cooked in the same water that they have been soaked
in.

Soft water must be used to cook them. If this be not obtainable,
Maignen's Ante-Calcaire will be found to render the water soft.

Salt should not be added until they are at least half cooked, as its
tendency is to harden them. This applies also to peas, lentils, etc.

They take about two hours to cook, or three if required very soft.

They must not be allowed to boil very fast, for, like potatoes, they are
then liable to break before becoming tender.

About two pints of water, one ounce of butter, and one teaspoon of salt
to half-pint of soaked beans, may be taken as a fair average.

During soaking they swell to nearly double their original size, and in
boiling they double again.

Never throw away the liquor in which they are boiled but reserve it as
"stock."

When they are to be plainly served as a vegetable, it is best to remove
the lid of the saucepan a few minutes before dishing up, and so reduce
the liquor to the desired strength.

When required for frying they should be strained as soon as tender, and
spread over a plate to dry. They may then be fried in butter or oil.

Always make a point of tasting them before sending to table, for if not
sufficiently salted they are very insipid.

All spices, herbs, etc., boiled with the beans for flavouring purposes,
should be tied in a small piece of muslin, which may at any moment be
easily removed.

Haricot bean pulp, which will be found frequently mentioned in the
following recipes, is made by boiling the beans until tender and rather
dry, and then rubbing them through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon.


Lentils.

Next in usefulness to the haricot bean comes the German lentil. This
must not be confounded with the Egyptian lentil, which closely resembles
the split pea; for not only is the former double the price of the
latter, but I may add double its worth also, at least from a culinary
point of view.

In vegetarian cookery the lentil takes the place of the dark meats of
the flesh-eaters' dietary, such as beef and mutton, the haricot bean
supplying a substitute for the white, such as veal, chicken, etc.

The liquor in which lentils have been boiled forms a rich foundation
for dark sauces, also a delicious and nourishing beverage, in flavour
resembling beef-tea, can be obtained from them (see Recipe No. 12).

Besides being darker in colour, the flavour of lentils is much more
pronounced than that of haricots.

Throughout the following recipes the word "lentil" means German lentil,
without exception.


Split Peas, etc.

Most of the advice given above respecting haricots and lentils applies
to the treatment of split peas, dried green peas, and Egyptian lentils.


Thickenings for Soups and Sauce.

Pearl barley is invaluable for thickening soups, sauces, etc.

It should be strained away when the required consistency is obtained,
for if left in too long the flavour is apt to be found a little too
strong for some tastes.

Sago, tapioca, rice, and semolina are all useful for thickening, and it
is generally advisable to strain the sauces in which they are used,
before sending to table.

If paste of flour and butter be used for thickening, there will be no
necessity to use a strainer, unless the sauce becomes lumpy. This can
generally be remedied, however, by prolonged stirring over the fire.

The paste is made by placing equal quantities of flour and butter on a
plate, and working them together with a knife until the flour is
thoroughly incorporated.

Use about one ounce each of flour and butter to one pint of sauce, or
to two pints of soup.

For thickening dark sauces, stews, etc., flour which has been baked in
the oven until it has turned a very light brown will be found better
than white flour. If allowed to become too brown it will acquire a
disagreeable flavour.


Frying in Oil.

A medium-sized iron saucepan and a wire basket to fit it easily should
be kept for this purpose. Fill about a third of the saucepan with oil
(be quite sure that the quality is good), put in the wire basket, and
place the saucepan over the fire or gas, and after a few minutes watch
it carefully to see when it begins to boil. This will be notified by the
oil becoming quite still, and emitting a thin blue vapour. Directly this
is observed, drop the articles to be fried gently into the basket, taking
care not to overcrowd them, or their shape will be quite spoiled. When
they have become a golden brown, lift out the basket, suspend it for one
moment over the saucepan to allow the oil to run back, then carefully
turn the fritters on to some soft paper, and serve piled on a hot dish,
not forgetting to use a fish paper.

When cold, the oil should be strained through a fine strainer, lined
with a piece of muslin. It is then ready for use again with a little
more added.

Should the oil become burnt, it must of course be thrown away.


Bread Crumbs.

To procure _fine_ bread crumbs, rub stale bread through a wire sieve.
For this the hands should be scrupulously clean.

Should the crumbs be required _coarse_, rubbing the bread on a grater
will answer the purpose.




RECIPES.




SOUPS.


No. 1.--Artichoke Soup.

  3 pounds Jerusalem artichokes after peeling.
  2 pints water.
  1 pint milk.
  2 ounces butter.
  2 teaspoons salt.
  2 shalots.
  2 teaspoons chopped celery.
  1 tablespoon sago.
  1 dozen peppercorns, with a suspicion of mace and cinnamon tied in
    muslin.

Peel the artichokes and throw them into cold water. Dissolve the butter
in a large enamelled saucepan, slice the artichokes and fry for five
minutes in the butter, then add the water, shalots and celery chopped,
and the seasonings. Boil for three-quarters of an hour, removing the
scum as it rises. Add milk and sago, and stir frequently for twenty
minutes. Rub through a hair sieve into a tureen.

Note.--Cream is often recommended for this soup, but when sago and milk
are used as above, the result will be found extremely satisfactory, and
the expense considerably lessened.


No. 2.--Asparagus Soup.

  60 heads of asparagus.
  1 cabbage lettuce.
  2 quarts of water.
  1 ounce of butter.
  6 medium-sized onions.
  A sprig of mint.
  1 tablespoon of sago.
  2 teaspoons of salt.
  ½ teaspoon of pepper.
  2 or 3 drops of spinach extract.

Dissolve the butter in a large saucepan, place in the lettuce finely
shredded, the salt, pepper, mint, onions sliced, water, and the green
portion of the asparagus, but reserving thirty tops. Boil one hour. Stir
in the sago and boil again, stirring frequently for half an hour without
the lid. Boil the thirty tops separately in a little salted water until
tender. Strain the soup through a hair sieve (rubbing the pulp through
with a wooden spoon) into a hot tureen, add the tops and the colouring,
and serve.

Note.--If the soup be made some time before required, do not cook the
tops until it is being re-heated.


No. 3.--Brown Soup.

  6 cold boiled potatoes.
  2 onions stuck with cloves.
  1 tomato.
  2½ pints stock.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 strip of lemon peel.
  3 whole allspice.
  1 dozen peppercorns.
  1 teaspoon Worcester sauce.
  Pepper and salt to taste.
  1 dozen forcemeat balls, No. 78

Slice the potatoes and fry them very carefully in the butter, so as to
thoroughly brown without burning them. Place them in a saucepan with the
stock and simmer five minutes; by this time the brown colour will have
boiled off the potatoes into the soup. Strain away the potatoes, return
the soup to the saucepan, add onions (each stuck with three cloves),
lemon peel, sauce, spices, pepper and salt, and the tomato sliced and
fried. Simmer one hour, strain into a hot tureen, place in the forcemeat
balls, which have been previously fried, and serve quickly.


No. 4.--Carrot Soup.

  1 pint haricot beans.
  5 pints water.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 ounce salt.
  6 large carrots.
  2 large onions.
  1 small head of celery.
  1 teaspoon peppercorns.

Dissolve the butter in a large saucepan. Slice the vegetables, and place
them in the saucepan together with the water and peppercorns, and simmer
for one hour. Add salt, and simmer for another hour and a half. Strain.


No. 5.--Celery Soup.

  3 large heads of celery.
  1 large onion.
  1 potato.
  3 pints water.
  1 dozen peppercorns.
  2 ounces butter.
  ¾ ounce flour.
  1½ teaspoons salt.
  ½ pint milk.
  1 pinch of mace.

Dissolve one ounce of butter in a good-sized saucepan, then add the
vegetables sliced, and all the other ingredients, except flour, milk,
and the other ounce of butter. Simmer for one and a half hours. Strain,
thicken with flour and butter. Add milk, and serve very hot.


No. 6.--Chestnut Soup.

  1 pound chestnuts.
  1½ pints water.
  Yolk of one egg, or 1 teaspoon cream.
  1 onion.
  1 small turnip.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  6 peppercorns, and a very small pinch of mixed herbs.

Boil the chestnuts for half an hour. In the meantime dissolve the butter
in a stewpan; then fry in it the onion and turnip sliced, add the water
flavourings, and chestnuts after removing the shells and skins. Boil one
hour. Place the cream or yolk in a basin, strain the soup on to it and
stir, then strain it back into the saucepan; re-warm, but do not allow
to boil. Pour into the tureen and serve.


No. 7.--French Bean Soup.

  3 pints water.
  1 pint soaked haricot beans.
  2 potatoes.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 onion.
  1 pound French beans.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 dozen peppercorns.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan and fry in it the potatoes and onion
sliced for five minutes, then add the haricot beans and water and boil
for two hours. Add the salt, rub through a wire sieve, replace in the
pan, add the French beans cut fine, and simmer until tender. Tinned
beans do equally well, and only require to be made thoroughly hot.


No. 8.--Green Kale Soup.

  2 pounds green kale.
  1 onion.
  1 Spanish ditto.
  2 potatoes.
  1 ounce butter.
  2 teaspoons sago.
  1 quart water.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 dozen peppercorns, and a suspicion each of mace and sweet herbs.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, and place in it the onions and
potatoes sliced; then add water, salt and flavourings, and boil for one
hour. In the meantime prepare the kale by picking off all but the tender
middle shoots, trim the stalks and throw the kale into salt and water;
rinse well and see that it is all quite free from insects, and boil
separately in salted water for ten minutes. When the soup has boiled an
hour, thicken with the sago and continue stirring ten minutes, strain,
return to the saucepan. Strain also the kale, place it on a chopping
board and cut small; add it to the soup, boil up and serve.

Note.--Any kind of greens may be treated in the above manner.


No. 9.--Haricot Bean Soup.

  1 pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 good-sized carrot.
  1 good-sized turnip.
  2 onions.
  1 small head of celery.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  2 quarts water.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, place in the onions sliced and fry
five minutes; then add the other vegetables sliced, the beans, and
water. Boil one and a half hours, add salt, and simmer half an hour
longer. Strain before serving.


No. 10.--Lentil Soup.

  1 pint lentils.
  2 quarts water.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1 carrot.
  1 onion.
  1 turnip.
  1 potato.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 tablespoon minced parsley.

Slice the vegetables and fry in the butter for five minutes, place them
in a saucepan with the lentils and water and boil one and a half hours;
add salt and a little pepper if liked. Strain, replace in the saucepan,
add the parsley, boil for three minutes, and serve.

Note.--The solid part which is strained away should on no account be
wasted, but will be found excellent for making lentil puddings, pies,
stews, etc.


No. 11.--Lentil Broth.

  ½ pint soaked lentils.
  1 tablespoon pearl barley.
  1 quart water.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 shalot sliced.
  1 flat teaspoon salt.
  { 3 peppercorns.
  { 3 allspice, and a small strip of lemon peel, tied in muslin.

Place altogether in a saucepan with the exception of the salt, which
should be added later, and boil gently for two hours, removing the scum
as it rises. Strain and serve with sippets of freshly-made toast.

Note.--The above will be found a very excellent substitute for mutton
broth, being very nourishing, and tasty; when liked a turnip maybe
added, and will give additional flavour. The lentils and barley, which
have been strained, may be used in many ways.


No. 12.--Lentil Tea.

(A substitute for Beef Tea.)

  1 pint soaked lentils.
  1 pint water.
  2 ounces butter.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  2 cloves.
  6 peppercorns.
  A very small piece of mace.
  A little pepper if liked.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, place in all the ingredients except
salt and pepper. Boil half an hour, removing the scum as it rises. Add
salt, boil another half hour. Strain carefully and serve with toast or
bread.

Note.--The lentils should be re-boiled, and will make a very useful
stock.


No. 13.--Mulligatawny Soup.

  1½ pints soaked haricot beans.
  3 quarts water.
  2 large carrots.
  2 large turnips.
  1 large onion.
  1 leek.
  2 ounces butter.
  2 teaspoons salt.
  2 dozen peppercorns.
  ½ ounce curry powder.
  ½ ounce flour.

Place the beans, water, onion and leek in a large saucepan and place on
the fire. Slice the carrots and turnips and fry in one ounce of butter
until slightly brown. Add them to the beans and boil altogether for one
hour, then add salt and peppercorns. Boil for another hour, strain,
return to the saucepan and thicken with the flour, curry powder, and one
ounce of butter made into a paste. Stir until it has boiled for three
minutes. Strain again if necessary before serving. Serve boiled rice in
another dish.


No. 14.--Oatmeal Soup.

  3 carrots.
  3 turnips.
  3 onions.
  3 tablespoons coarse oatmeal.
  1 stick of celery.
  5 pints water.
  2½ ounces butter.
  2 teaspoons salt.
  1 dozen peppercorns.
  1 tablespoon chopped parsley.

Dissolve the butter in a large saucepan, slice the vegetables and fry
them for a few minutes in the butter, but do not allow them to brown.
Add water, peppercorns and salt, and boil two hours; then add oatmeal
(which should have been previously soaked for a few hours), and boil
three-quarters of an hour longer. Strain, return to the saucepan, add
the parsley, simmer three minutes, and Serve.


No. 15.--Onion Soup.

  6 onions.
  2 Spanish ditto.
  4 potatoes.
  1 quart water.
  2 teaspoons salt.
  2 teaspoons sago.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1 dozen peppercorns, and a suspicion of mace and mixed herbs in muslin.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, then place in the onions sliced, and
stand the pan over a gentle heat, shaking frequently. In the meantime
peel and slice the potatoes and add them to the onions, together with
the water, salt and flavourings. Boil for one and a half hours, lift out
the muslin bag, stir in the sago, and continue stirring for ten minutes,
then strain.


No. 16.--Parsnip Soup.

  3 good-sized parsnips.
  2 potatoes.
  1 large onion.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1 quart water.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 dozen peppercorns.
  2 teaspoons sago.

Dissolve the butter in the saucepan, then place in the vegetables
sliced, with the water, salt and peppercorns, and boil for one and a
half hours; add sago, stir until it thickens, then rub through a sieve
into a tureen and serve hot.


No. 17.--Pea Soup.

  1 pint soaked peas.
  1 ounce butter.
  2½ pints water.
  1 stick of celery.
  1½ teaspoons salt.
  1 large carrot.
  1 large turnip.
  1 large onion.
  1 dozen peppercorns.
  ½ teaspoon mixed herbs.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, place in it the peas and one pint
of water, and boil gently for half-an-hour. In the meantime prepare
and slice the vegetables and add them to the peas, together with the
seasonings, boil for one and a half hours, and pass through a sieve,
rubbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon.


No. 18.--Dried Green Pea Soup.

  1½ pints soaked green peas.
  1 large onion.
  1 large carrot.
  1 large turnip.
  2 quarts water.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 dozen peppercorns.

Dissolve the butter in a large saucepan, place in the peas (which
must have been carefully picked over), the vegetables sliced, and the
peppercorns. Boil gently three hours, add salt, and rub through a wire
sieve with a wooden spoon. Serve with sippets of toast.


No. 19.--Fresh Green Pea Soup.

  2 pints of shelled green peas.
  1 ounce butter.
  A handful of mint.
  1 cabbage lettuce.
  3 pints of water.
  1½ teaspoons of salt.
  1 onion.
  1 lump of sugar.

Dissolve the butter in a large saucepan and place in the peas, the onion
sliced, the lettuce and mint thoroughly washed, the water, salt, and
sugar. Boil for one and a half hours, strain through a wire sieve,
rubbing the peas through with a wooden spoon.


No. 20.--Potato Soup.

(Very suitable for children.)

  1½ pounds potatoes.
  2 onions.
  1 tablespoon sago.
  2 pints water.
  ½ pint milk.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.

Peel and slice the potatoes and onions, and fry them for ten minutes in
the butter, but without browning them. Place them in a saucepan with
the water, salt and pepper (the latter should be omitted if for young
children), and boil for an hour; add sago and milk, boil for about ten
minutes, stirring all the time, then rub through a wire sieve with a
wooden spoon, and serve.


No. 21.--Rice Soup.

(Very suitable for children.)

  ¼ pint rice.
  3 pints water.
  1 pint milk.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1 large turnip.
  1 large onion.
  1 large potato.
  1 teaspoon salt.

Place the butter in a large saucepan, and let it melt so as to grease
the whole of the bottom of the pan; wash the rice and place it with the
vegetables sliced in the saucepan, and boil for about three-quarters of
an hour, stirring frequently; add milk and salt, and simmer carefully
for about a quarter of an hour, taking care that it does not burn.


No. 22.--Sea Kale Soup.

  14 nice heads of kale.
  1 potato.
  1 onion.
  1½ pints water.
  ½ pint milk.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1 lump of sugar.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  2 teaspoons sago.

Dissolve the butter in an enamelled saucepan, then add the kale, after
thoroughly washing and cutting it into two-inch pieces; place the
saucepan over a gentle heat, shaking it frequently. Peel and slice the
potato and onion, and place them, together with the salt, water and
sugar, with the kale. Boil one hour, strain, return to the saucepan, add
milk and sago, replace over the fire and stir for ten minutes. Strain
again into a tureen, and serve with sippets of toast.


No. 23.--Semolina Soup.

  3 pints water.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  1 onion.
  2 potatoes.
  1 tablespoon raw semolina.
  ¾ teaspoon salt.
  A little pepper.

Slice the vegetables and boil them in the water for about an hour, rub
through a wire sieve, replace in the saucepan, add seasoning and shake
in the semolina gradually. Boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time.


No. 24.--Brown Stock.

  1 pint soaked lentils.
  3 pints water.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 teaspoon of salt.
  1 onion.
  6 peppercorns.

Dissolve the butter in a large saucepan, place in the lentils, water,
and vegetables sliced. Boil one hour, add salt, re-boil until quite
done. Strain.


No. 25.--White Stock.

  1 pint soaked haricot beans.
  3 pints water.
  1 large carrot.
  1 large onion.
  1 large turnip.
  A little celery.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  A very small quantity each of mixed herbs, mace and peppercorns.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, add the beans, vegetables sliced, the
seasonings, and water; boil all together for two and a half hours.
Strain.


No. 26.--Tomato Soup.

  2½ pounds tomatoes.
  1 large carrot.
  1 large turnip.
  1 large onion.
  1½ pints water.
  3 ounces butter.
  1 tablespoon sago.
  2 teaspoons salt.
  1 dozen peppercorns.

Slice the carrot, turnip and onion, and place them with two ounces of
butter in a good-sized saucepan and fry for a few minutes; add water,
peppercorns, and one teaspoon of salt, and boil gently. Cook the
tomatoes in another stewpan, according to Recipe No. 155, adding to them
the other teaspoon of salt and one ounce of butter. When quite tender,
pour them into the saucepan containing the vegetables and simmer
altogether for about an hour, or until the vegetables are thoroughly
tender. Strain, return to the saucepan, and when boiling stir in the
sago; simmer gently for half an hour, and the soup may, if liked, be
again strained before serving.


No. 27.--Turnip Soup.

  10 turnips.
  2 onions.
  2 potatoes.
  1 small stick of celery.
  1 pint milk.
  3 pints water.
  2 ounces butter.
  2 teaspoons salt.
  1 teaspoon peppercorns.

Dissolve the butter in a large saucepan, place in the vegetables sliced,
salt, peppercorns, and water, and boil gently for two hours. Strain,
return to the saucepan, which must be perfectly clean, add milk, simmer
a few minutes and serve.

Note.--A tablespoon of cream placed in the tureen, and stirred into the
soup as it is poured in, is a great improvement, or it may be thickened
with one tablespoon sago.


No. 28.--Vegetable Soup.

  1 potato.
  2 onions.
  2 carrots.
  2 turnips.
  2 sticks of celery.
  3 pints water.
  3 or 4 thick slices of beetroot.
  1 dozen small sprigs of watercress.
  1 dozen small sprigs of parsley.
  1½ teaspoons salt.
  2 tablespoons pearl barley.
  1 ounce butter.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, place in the onions sliced, and fry
five minutes; then add all the other ingredients and boil for one and a
half hours. Strain before serving. If liked, a carrot and turnip, neatly
cut into little strips, may be boiled separately, strained, and added to
the soup before serving.


No. 29.--Vegetable Marrow Soup.

  1 large vegetable marrow.
  1 quart water.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 gill of milk.
  1 onion.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  2 tablespoons semolina.

Peel the vegetable marrow, and cut it into rather thin slices, cut the
onion in quarters, and put all into a good-sized saucepan in which the
butter has been dissolved; add the salt and water, and simmer for one
hour. Strain through a sieve, rubbing as much of the pulp through as
possible; return the soup to the saucepan, shake in the semolina, stir
for ten minutes after it boils, and add the milk just before serving.


No. 30.--Vermicelli Soup.

  6 carrots.
  6 turnips.
  1 head of celery.
  6 onions.
  1 handful of parsley.
  ½ pint tomato juice.
  3 quarts of water.
  3 teaspoons of peppercorns.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 ounce of salt.
  3 ounces vermicelli.
  White of 1 egg.

Clean and slice the vegetables, dissolve the butter in a large saucepan,
place in it the vegetables, including the parsley, add water and salt
and peppercorns, and boil for one and a half hours, removing the scum as
it rises. Strain; return the soup to the saucepan, which should first be
rinsed, allow it to simmer, pour in the white of egg, re-strain through
a very fine sieve (or a piece of muslin placed in an ordinary sieve
will answer the purpose). Return again to the saucepan, which must be
thoroughly clean, add the vermicelli, and simmer for half an hour. Add
the tomato juice just before serving.




STEWS.


No. 31.--Brighton Stew.

  ½ pound cooked haricot beans.
  ½ pint fresh green peas.
  1 small cauliflower.
  6 small onions.
  1 pint haricot bean stock.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  The juice of half a lemon.
  Salt and pepper to taste.

Dissolve the butter in a stewpan, peel and halve the onions and fry them
for about ten minutes, but do not allow to brown, stir in the flour, add
the peas and stock, and simmer until the vegetables are tender, stirring
frequently, then add the beans, lemon juice, and seasonings. Boil the
cauliflower separately, break up the white part into neat pieces, add
them to the stew, and simmer altogether for a few minutes. Pour into an
entrée dish and serve very hot.

Note.--Good tinned peas will answer the purpose when fresh ones are not
obtainable.


No. 32.--Carrot Stew.

  3 carrots.
  1 large onion.
  1 ounce butter.
  1½ pints water.
  6 ounces cooked rice.
  1 teaspoon salt.

Slice the carrots and onion, and fry them in the butter for ten minutes,
but do not let them brown; add salt and water, and boil for one and a
half hours; then stir in the rice, simmer for another half hour,
stirring frequently, and serve.


No. 33.--Stewed Cucumber.

  1 cucumber.
  1 shalot.
  ½ ounce butter.
  ¼ pint water.
  A little pepper and salt.

Peel and slice the cucumber, place it in an enamelled stewpan with the
shalot finely minced, the butter, pepper, salt and water. Simmer very
gently for about half an hour, or until quite tender.

Note.--May be served plain, or with tomato sauce No. 181.


No. 34.--Stewed Cucumber and Beetroot.

  1 small cucumber.
  12 slices of beetroot.
  1 shalot.
  1 ounce butter.
  ¼ pint water.
  A little pepper and salt.

Slice the cucumber and beetroot, and fry them separately in half an
ounce of butter for about five minutes. Place them together in a stewpan
with the shalot finely minced, the pepper, salt and water, and stew
gently for half an hour.


No. 35.--Stewed Cucumber with Sauce Piquante.

  2 cucumbers.
  2 ounces butter.
  Pepper to taste.
  1 gill of water.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ pint sauce piquante.

Peel and slice the cucumbers, place them in a stewpan with the other
ingredients, and simmer for, half or three-quarters of an hour, leaving
the lid off the last few minutes in order that none of the liquor may
remain. Serve with piquante sauce No. 171 poured over, and sippets of
toast.


No. 36.--Braized Cucumber with Tomato Sauce.

  1 cucumber.
  1 shalot.
  ½ pound tomatoes.
  1 gill of water.
  2 ounces butter.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  3 teaspoons semolina.

Dissolve the butter in a small stewpan, peel and slice the cucumber in
slices about a quarter of an inch thick, remove the seeds with a pointed
knife, dry the slices in a clean cloth and braize them in the butter
until tender (about a quarter of an hour), adding a little salt and
pepper. When done (they must on no account be allowed to break), remove
them carefully with a fork one by one on to a suitable sized dish, and
place on one side. To make the sauce, cut up the tomatoes and shalot,
and place them with the seeds and any rough pieces of the cucumber in
the butter which has just cooked the cucumber, adding water and salt if
needed; simmer for half an hour, strain, and thicken with semolina, or
flour if preferred. Re-warm the cucumber by placing it in the oven, pour
the sauce over, and serve.


No. 37.--Stewed Mushrooms.

For Mushroom Patties, etc.

  6 ounces mushrooms.
  ¾ pint of milk.
  Pepper and salt to taste.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.

Place the butter and flour in a small stewpan, and stir over a gentle
heat until thoroughly mixed, add the milk and seasonings, and stir until
it boils. Then place in the mushrooms, which have been cleaned and
prepared, and boil gently until perfectly tender, stirring all the time.
They are then ready for use.


No. 38.--Potato Stew.

  6 or 8 small potatoes.
  1 gill water.
  ½ pint milk.
  1 small shalot.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ dozen peppercorns.
  1 strip of lemon peel.

Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, place in the potatoes
peeled, the shalot finely sliced, milk, water and seasonings (the
peppercorns and lemon peel tied in muslin), and stew until tender. When
done, lift the potatoes carefully out and place in a hot vegetable dish,
remove the seasoning, thicken the liquor with the half ounce each of
flour and butter, stirring until it boils; then pour over the potatoes,
and serve.


No. 39.--Baked Potato Stew.

  Potatoes according to size.
  1½ pint good stock or sauce.

Peel sufficient potatoes to cover the bottom of a large and deep pie-dish
(a cook's comfort is the best shape for this purpose), pour over them the
sauce or stock, which must be highly seasoned and flavoured with herbs
and spices. Bake in a moderate oven for one or one and a half hours,
according to the size of the potatoes.

Note.--Light dumplings and boiled cabbage should accompany this dish.


No. 40.--Stewed Green Peas.

  1 pint shelled peas.
  1 lettuce.
  1 gill of water.
  1 onion sliced.
  A sprig of mint.
  ½ ounce of butter.
  Salt to taste.

Wash the lettuce and cut it up rather fine, place it with the other
ingredients in a stewpan, and simmer without the lid about half an hour,
or until the peas are quite tender.


No. 41.--Green Pea and Lettuce Stew.

  1½ pints shelled peas.
  2 cabbage lettuces sliced.
  1 small onion sliced.
  1 tablespoon water.
  1 ounce butter.
  The yolks of 2 eggs.
  1 tablespoon cream.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon white sugar.

Stew the peas, lettuces and onion very gently with the butter and water
for half an hour (three-quarters of an hour if the peas are not very
young). Add the sugar and salt, then stir in the yolks of eggs and
cream; continue stirring for a minute until it all thickens (but on no
account allow it to boil, or the eggs will curdle), and serve with
sippets of toasted bread.


No. 42.--Green Pea and Potato Stew.

  1 pint shelled green peas.
  6 new potatoes.
  2 onions.
  A sprig of mint.
  1½ pints water.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ ounce butter rolled in flour.

Slice the potatoes and onions, and place them in a stewpan with the
peas, mint and water. Simmer gently for one hour, remove the mint, add
salt and butter, and stir for a few minutes over the fire.


No. 43.--Haricot Bean Stew.

  1 pint soaked haricot beans.
  4 potatoes.
  2 large onions.
  ½ ounce butter
  1 quart water.
  1 teaspoon salt.

Prepare and slice the vegetables, place them with the butter, beans, and
water, in a stewpan, and simmer gently for two hours and a half; add
salt.


No. 44.--Haricot Bean Stew.

  1 pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 quart water.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ ounce butter.
  1 good-sized onion.
  1 tablespoon semolina.
  ½ pint stewed tomatoes.

Dissolve the butter in a stewpan, place in the beans, the onion cut up,
and the water, and boil for two hours; add salt. Simmer for half an hour
longer, then shake in the semolina, and continue stirring for about ten
minutes. Cooked semolina will do equally well, and need only be added
five minutes before serving (about a quarter of a pound will be
required). Lastly, add tomatoes, which should have been previously
stewed (see No. 155), and serve.


No. 45.--Haricot Bean Stew.

  ½ pint soaked haricot beans.
  2 carrots.
  2 turnips.
  2 onions.
  ½ ounce butter.
  1 pint water.
  ½ pint
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 dozen peppercorns tied in muslin.
  1 tablespoon soaked or crushed tapioca.

Boil the beans in the water with the butter, vegetables sliced, and the
peppercorns, for two hours; remove the peppercorns, add salt and
tapioca, and stir until it thickens.


No. 46.--Haricot Bean Ragoût.

  1 pint soaked haricots.
  1 quart water.
  2 carrots.
  2 turnips.
  2 onions.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 tablespoon flour.

Boil the haricot beans until tender, adding salt a short time
previously. Strain and spread the beans on a dish that they may dry.
Slice the carrots and turnips very fine, and boil for half an hour in
the liquor; strain also. Slice the onions, and fry ten minutes in the
butter, but do not allow them to brown; add haricots and flour, and
simmer altogether another five minutes, stirring all the time. Chop the
vegetables very fine, add to the beans and onions, pour in the liquor,
stir until it boils and thickens, and serve.


No. 47.--Haricot Bean and Green Pea Stew.

  ½ pint soaked haricot beans.
  ½ pint shelled green peas.
  1½ pints of water.
  1 onion.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  1½ teaspoons of salt.
  A sprig of mint.

Boil the haricot beans in the usual way with one pint of the water, one
teaspoon of salt, and the onion sliced. When cooked, thicken with a
paste of the flour and butter. Boil the green peas with the remainder of
the water, salt, and mint. When tender, mix with the haricot beans, and
serve with sippets of toast.


No. 48.--Irish Stew.

  ½ pint soaked lentils.
  6 potatoes.
  2 large onions.
  ½ ounce butter.
  1 pint water.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.

Place the lentils and butter with the vegetables, which must be sliced,
in a saucepan with the water, and stew gently for one hour. Add
seasonings a quarter of an hour before serving.


No. 49.--Lentil Stew with Forcemeat Cutlets.

  1 quart soaked lentils.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  1 onion.
  1 teaspoon Worcester sauce.
  2 teaspoons salt.
  1 ounce butter.
  Forcemeat.

Simmer the lentils gently in three pints of water for one and a half
hours. Strain. Put a quarter of a pound of the lentils on one side to
cool. Rub the rest through the wire sieve with a wooden spoon until
nothing but the skins remain. In the meantime, boil the vegetables with
sufficient water to cover, until quite tender. When thoroughly cooked
pour into the lentil purée, add the sauce and salt, and re-warm. Prepare
forcemeat No. 77, adding the quarter of a pound of lentils chopped fine;
shape into little cutlets (about twelve), brown in a frying-pan with the
butter, place on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve at once.


No. 50.--Rice Stew.

  ½ pound cooked rice.
  1 pint water.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  ½ ounce each flour and butter.
  1 potato.
  1 onion.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  A little curry powder or Worcester sauce, if liked.

Slice the vegetables, place them in a saucepan with the salt and water,
and boil for one hour, or until tender. When done, stand the saucepan
on one side for a few minutes to get thoroughly off the boil. Mix the
flour and butter well together, add them to the stew; re-boil and stir
until it thickens; add rice, and boil for one or two minutes. If curry
powder is liked, it should be mixed with the flour and butter, but the
Worcester sauce may be added at the last moment.


No. 51.--Spanish Onion Stew.

  3 Spanish onions.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  1½ pints water.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ dozen peppercorns tied in muslin.
  A few sticks of celery.

Slice the carrot and turnip and fry a few minutes in the butter, place
them in a saucepan together with the onions cut in quarters, the water,
salt, celery and peppercorns. Boil gently until quite tender, remove the
peppercorns, reduce the gravy, and serve with sippets of toast.


No. 52.--Tennis Stew.

  ½ pound mashed potato.
  ½ pound cold greens of any kind.
  6 medium-sized carrots.
  ½ pint rich brown sauce.
  1 egg.
  A few bread crumbs.
  Pepper and salt.

Mix well together the potatoes, greens (which must be finely chopped),
egg, and seasoning to taste, adding as many bread crumbs as are needful
to render the mixture firm enough to roll into balls. Fry the balls in a
little butter, or they may be rolled in egg and bread crumbs and dropped
into boiling oil. (The latter way is specially recommended when only
half the above quantity of vegetables is being used, and consequently
only half an egg is needed; the other half should then be reserved for
this purpose.) Arrange a circle of balls on a hot dish, have ready the
carrots boiled, slice them rather thickly and shape them into the form
of tennis bats; place them in the centre, and pour the sauce over them.
If curried sauce be used, rice may either be served separately, or a
border of it placed round the balls.


No. 53.--Tomato Ragoût.

  9 tomatoes.
  1 large onion.
  1 large turnip.
  1 large carrot.
  1 small stick of celery.
  1½ pints water.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 ounce brown flour.

Slice the onion, turnip and carrot, and cut the two latter into very
neat or ornamental pieces, cut the celery very small, place altogether
in a stewpan with the water and salt, and simmer gently for two and
a half hours. Stew the tomatoes according to No. 155 in a separate
stewpan, using one ounce of butter. When the vegetables are quite
tender, the tomato juice, which has been previously strained, should
be added to them, and the whole thickened with the flour and remaining
ounce of butter thoroughly mixed to a paste. The stew must be allowed
to boil gently for a few minutes after it has been thickened, to cook
the flour.

Note.--A small teaspoonful of Worcester sauce may be used instead of the
pepper.


No. 54.--Rich Baked Vegetable Stew.

  2 large young carrots.
  4 fresh tomatoes.
  3 or 4 new potatoes.
  1 shalot.
  A pinch of sweet herbs.
  2 eggs.
  Pepper and salt.
  2 ounces butter.
  2 ounces bread crumbs.

Melt the butter in a stewpan and fry in it the carrots and potatoes,
sliced very thin, for about ten minutes, or until they begin to brown.
Scald the tomatoes by pouring boiling water over them, remove the skins,
slice them, and place in the stewpan with a sprinkle each of salt,
pepper, sweet herbs, and the shalot, very finely minced. Stew altogether
gently for about half an hour (the juice from the tomatoes with the
butter makes sufficient liquor), and when thoroughly cooked, pour into a
shallow pie-dish. Break the eggs and separate yolks from whites, beat
the former and stir in the bread crumbs, with which have been mixed a
pinch of salt and pepper; then beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix in
with the yolks, stir well altogether and place over the stew in the form
of crust, and bake a quarter of an hour in a very brisk oven. Serve hot
or cold.


No. 55.--Vegetable Ragoût.

  2 carrots.
  2 turnips.
  2 onions.
  2 potatoes.
  2 tomatoes.
  1 quart water.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  2½ ounces butter.
  1 ounce flour.

Prepare the vegetables, cutting the onions and turnips in quarters, and
slicing the potatoes and carrots, place them together with the water,
salt and half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, and boil for one hour.
Scald the tomatoes, remove the skins, quarter and add to the ragoût;
simmer for a quarter of an hour longer, then carefully strain away the
vegetables and place them in a deep dish; return the liquor to the
saucepan, and thicken with the flour and butter made into a paste; stir
until the sauce boils and is free from lumps, then pour over the
vegetables, and serve hot. Sippets of toast may be added with advantage.

Note.--Should the sauce remain lumpy it should be poured over the
vegetables through a strainer.


No. 56.--Stewed Vegetable Marrow.

  1 middling-sized vegetable marrow.
  1 pint water.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  ½ teaspoon salt.

Peel and slice the marrow and remove the seeds; place these in a
saucepan with the water and salt, and simmer for a quarter of an hour.
Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put in the slices of
marrow, and strain the liquor from the seeds over them; stew gently for
half or one hour, according to the age of the marrow. When quite done,
lift the pieces out carefully. Mix the other half ounce butter and flour
into a paste, thicken the gravy with this, pour it over the marrow, and
serve. A sprig of mint may be boiled with the seeds if liked.

Note.--This method of boiling vegetable marrows will be found greatly
superior to that generally adopted, as in this case there is no waste
nor loss of flavour.




FRITTERS, ETC.


No. 57.--Savoury Almond Fritters.

  Yolk of hard-boiled egg.
  3 Brazil nuts.
  1 baked potato.
  2 raw yolks of eggs.
  The whites of ditto.
  1 shalot.
  1 pinch of mixed sweet herbs.
  1 teaspoon ground almonds.
  1 tablespoon bread crumbs.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  A little pepper.
  A little grated lemon rind.
  1 teaspoon minced parsley.
  Egg and bread crumbs.

Remove the nuts from the shells and scrape off the brown skin, pound
them to a paste in a mortar with the hard-boiled yolk and sweet herbs.
When quite smooth, add the shalot and parsley minced, the salt, pepper,
lemon rind, baked potato, and bread crumbs. Mix all well together, then
add the two raw yolks; stir well again, and, lastly, add the whites
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a buttered soup-plate,
turn another over the top, and bake in a moderate oven until it has
quite set (about one hour). Let it cool, and then cut into squares or
stamp out with a fancy cutter; roll each piece in egg and bread crumbs,
and fry in boiling oil.


No. 58.--Savoury Batter Fritters.

Proceed according to No. 73, when done turn out and allow to get cold,
then cut in neat little squares or stamp out with pastry cutters. Fry in
a little butter or roll in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling
oil.


No. 59.--Brazil Rissoles.

  3 ounces Brazil nuts without shells.
  3½ tablespoons cream.
  1 whole egg.
  3 yolks ditto.
  1 teaspoon Tarragon vinegar.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon white pepper.
  1 teaspoon minced parsley.
  Egg and bread crumbs.

After scraping off the brown skin pound the nuts to a paste in a mortar,
add the other ingredients, and stir well altogether. Well butter six (or
eight) little tin moulds, fill them with the mixture, stand the moulds
in a baking tin which contains a little boiling water, and bake in a
moderate oven for twelve or fifteen minutes. When cold, take them out of
the moulds, brush over with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling oil
until a nice golden colour (about three minutes). Garnish with parsley.


No. 60.--Egg and Tomato Fritters.

  6 hard-boiled eggs.
  6 teaspoons bread crumbs.
  6 teaspoons minced parsley.
  6 teaspoons minced tomato.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  1 egg.

Mince the eggs, parsley and tomato, and mix altogether with the pepper
and salt, bread crumbs, and half a beaten egg; form into little cutlets,
roll in the other half of the egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling
oil.


No. 61.--Golden Marbles.

  ¼ pound haricot bean pulp.
  2 ounces bread crumbs.
  ¼ pound mashed potatoes.
  1 shalot.
  1 egg.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  Bread crumbs.

Rub well-cooked haricots through a wire sieve until the requisite
quantity of pulp is obtained, add the bread crumbs, potato, salt and
shalot, which must be very finely minced, stir in half a beaten egg,
shape into little balls the size of marbles, roll them in the other half
of egg and the bread crumbs, and fry in boiling fat until a golden
brown.


No. 62.--Haricot Bean Croquettes.

  ½ pint soaked haricot beans.
  ¼ pint water.
  ¼ pint milk.
  1 ounce butter.
  4 ounces bread crumbs.
  2 or 3 shalots.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon white sugar.
  ¼ teaspoon white pepper.
  1 egg.

Place the beans in a stewpan with the water and butter, and boil for two
hours; then add milk, salt and pepper, and stew for half an hour longer.
Mince the shalot and fry for one minute, but without browning. Strain
the haricot beans and chop them very fine, add the shalot and yolk of
egg and liquor that was strained off, and put the mixture aside for a
little while. When cool, stir in two ounces of the bread crumbs, form
into little balls, roll in the white of the egg and the remainder of the
bread crumbs, and fry in boiling oil.


No. 63.--Kromskies.

  Any nice mixture.
  Kromsky batter.
  Frying oil.

Shape the mixture (to which may be added a few bread crumbs if not
sufficiently firm) into little sausages, dip them into the batter, lift
out with a spoon and drop into boiling oil. When they have turned a
golden brown lift them out on to soft paper to drain.

The batter is made as follows:--

  4 ounces flour.
  1 gill of milk.
  1 ounce butter.
  A pinch of salt.
  1 egg.

Place the flour and salt in a basin, in another basin beat up the egg,
add the milk, then pour on to the flour, stirring well all the time, and
lastly add the butter, which should have been previously dissolved.


No. 64.--Mushroom Croquettes.

  3 ounces button mushrooms.
  3 ounces cooked haricot beans.
  1 cold potato.
  1 tablespoon German sauce No. 164.
  2 teaspoons chopped parsley.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  Egg and bread crumbs.

Mince the beans, which should be cold and quite dry, very finely, also
the mushrooms, cut the potato into small dice, chop the parsley, then
mix all well together with the seasonings, and moisten with the German
sauce. When perfectly cold, roll into small balls, dip them in the egg
and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling fat.

Note.--Tomato sauce should be served with this dish.


No. 65.--Potato Fritters.

  4 ounces mashed potato.
  1 ounce bread crumbs.
  A little pepper and salt.
  1 egg.
  1 teaspoon minced parsley.

Mix all well together, roll into little balls or sausages, and fry
either in butter or boiling oil.


No. 66.--Savoury Fritters.

A Breakfast Dish.

  3 ounces mashed potato.
  2 ounces bread crumbs.
  1 ounce vermicelli or semolina.
  1 onion.
  ½ teaspoon mixed herbs.
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind.
  1 teaspoon cream or little milk.
  1 egg.
  2 teaspoons minced parsley.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  ½ ounce butter.
  1 ounce butter for frying.

Peel the onion and boil it half an hour in salted water. Chop it very
fine and mix with the other ingredients. Beat the egg, white and yolk
separately, add to the mixture, stir well altogether, form into little
balls, sausages, or flat cakes, and fry until nicely browned. They may
be rolled in egg and bread crumbs and fried in oil if preferred.


No. 67.--Savoury Queen Fritters.

An excellent Breakfast Dish.

  6 ounces bread crumbs.
  The yolks of three eggs.
  ¾ pint milk.
  1 shalot.
  2 ounces butter.
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind.
  1 teaspoon mixed herbs.
  1 flat teaspoon salt.
  A little pepper.

Place the bread crumbs, which must be fine, in a basin, and add the
lemon-rind, herbs, salt, pepper, and chopped shalot, mix well together,
then pour in the milk, which should be at boiling point, and stand it on
one side for a few minutes, then stir in the yolks, and pour the mixture
into a well-greased tin, cover with another tin, and bake in a moderate
oven for about an hour, or until set. When cold, stamp out with a pastry
cutter, or cut into little squares, and fry in the remainder of the
butter. Serve quickly.

Note.--This dish may be prepared the previous day, and fried when
required.


No. 68.--Semolina Fritters (Sweet).

  1 pound cooked semolina.
  3 teaspoons sugar.
  4 eggs.
  1 ounce butter.
  A little flavouring according to taste.

Mix thoroughly all the ingredients, except the butter, and pour into a
tin, in which the ounce of butter has been dissolved, and bake until
firm. When quite cold, remove from the tin on to a flat board, and stamp
out or cut into squares, rounds, or fancy shapes, fry in butter or
boiling oil, roll in powdered sugar, and serve piled up.


No. 69.--Vermicelli and Cheese Fritters.

  6 ounces cooked vermicelli.
  1½ ounces bread crumbs.
  2 ounces grated cheese.
  1 egg.
  ½ teaspoon curry powder.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  1 ounce butter for frying.

Mix the ingredients thoroughly together, adding the yolk of egg; beat
the white to a stiff froth, and stir in last thing. Place in a greased
pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven until set. Allow to cool, then cut
into square pieces or stamp out into fancy shapes, and fry until brown.
Serve hot or cold.


No. 70.--Vermicelli and Cheese Fritters.

Another way.

  4 ounces vermicelli.
  4 ounces grated cheese.
  1 pint milk.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  Egg and bread crumbs.

Break up the vermicelli, and place it with three ounces of the cheese
well mixed together in a pie-dish; add seasoning and milk, and bake for
about half an hour, stirring once or twice at the beginning. When cold
and firm, cut into squares or fancy shapes, roll in egg and bread crumbs
(with which one ounce of cheese should be mixed), and fry in boiling oil
until crisp and brown.




SAVOURIES.


No. 71.--Asparagus and Egg on Toast.

  25 large heads of asparagus.
  1 gill tomato sauce Nos. 178, 179.
  4 eggs.
  1 ounce of butter.
  Pepper and salt to taste.
  6 rounds of toasted bread.

Dissolve one ounce of butter in a small stewpan, add the eggs beaten,
and a little pepper and salt. Stir over a gentle heat until the eggs
thicken, but do not allow to boil. In the meanwhile, boil the asparagus,
drain it well, cut the very tender portion into small pieces, and stir
them in with the eggs. Have ready the rounds of toast nicely buttered,
and spread the mixture very thickly on them. Pour a little of the tomato
juice over each round just before serving.


No. 72.--Rolled Batter Stuffed with Forcemeat.

  Batter.
  Forcemeat.

Make a batter (see No. 197), bake twenty minutes, shape the forcemeat
(No. 77) into the form of a large sausage, lay it on the batter, and
roll up. Bake three quarters of an hour longer.

A brown sauce should be served with this dish.

Note.--When cold, it may be cut in slices and fried.


No. 73.--Boiled Savoury Batter.

  3 eggs.
  3 tablespoons flour.
  ½ ounce butter.
  ¾ pint milk.
  1 teaspoon mixed herbs.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.

Well grease a pudding basin with the butter, and sprinkle in half a
teaspoon of herbs finely crushed. Mix the batter in the ordinary way
(see No. 197), adding the rest of the herbs, and steam one and three
quarter hours.


No. 74.--Cheese Mixture.

  4 ounces grated cheddar.
  3 ounces mashed potato.
  2 eggs.
  ½ ounce butter.
  2 teaspoons cream.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  A good shake of pepper.

Melt the butter in a small enamelled saucepan, add the cheese, beaten
eggs, pepper and salt, and stir over a moderate heat until the cheese is
thoroughly dissolved, but on no account allow to boil, stir in the
potato, and it is then ready for use as follows:

1st. Well grease a flat tin, pour in the mixture, bake until quite set,
and leave to get cold. Cut in squares or stamp out into fancy shapes,
and fry in butter.

2nd. Make a nice paste, roll out very thin, spread the mixture over,
roll up, and bake.


No. 75.--Chestnuts with Maitre d'Hotel Sauce.

  1 pound chestnuts.
  A pinch of salt.
  3 teaspoons parsley.
  1 teaspoon flour.
  1½ ounces butter.
  ½ pint milk.
  Yolk of one egg.

Cut the tips of the chestnuts (noticing carefully if any are worm-eaten),
and boil for half an hour in sufficient water to cover; remove the
shells and skins and fry a few minutes in the butter, stir in the flour
and salt and fry again, then pour in the milk and parsley and stir five
minutes, add the yolk of an egg and stir until it thickens, but do not
allow it to boil.


No. 76.--Savoury Eggs on Toast.

  4 eggs.
  1 tablespoon very fine bread crumbs.
  1 teaspoon minced parsley.
  A little butter.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  ½ teaspoon mixed herbs.
  Buttered toast.

Have ready four well-greased saucers, break the eggs carefully, allowing
the white of each egg to drop into a saucer, place the yolks together in
a basin and beat them, then stir in the bread crumbs, parsley, herbs,
salt and pepper. Well butter four egg cups, fill them with the mixture
and stand them in a flat saucepan containing sufficient hot water to
reach within a quarter of an inch of the brims, (care must be taken that
it does not enter them), and keep the water just below simmering point
for about half an hour, or until the mixture has just set. Prepare four
rounds of hot buttered toast, place on these the whites, which should
have been placed in the oven just long enough to set, turn out the
contents of the egg cups on the top, and serve at once.


No. 77.--Forcemeat.

  6 teaspoons chopped parsley.
  3 teaspoons mixed sweet herbs.
  3 teaspoons grated lemon rind.
  2 teaspoons pepper.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon powdered mace.
  4 ounces bread crumbs.
  2 eggs.
  2 ounces butter.

Mix all the dry ingredients thoroughly, then add the butter (which has
been previously warmed) and the beaten eggs, and stir all well together.


No. 78.--Forcemeat Balls.

  2 ounces bread crumbs.
  3 teaspoons chopped parsley.
  1½ teaspoons mixed sweet herbs.
  1½ teaspoons grated lemon rind.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 egg.
  1 ounce butter.
  ¼ teaspoon powdered mace.
  1 ounce butter for frying.

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then add the butter, and lastly the
egg beaten. Stir all well together, form into balls about the size of a
large cherry, and fry in the butter until nicely brown. The above
quantity will make sufficient balls for the brown soup No. 3.


No. 79.--Haricots on Bread.

  ½ pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 pint water.
  2 tablespoons mashed potato.
  1 dozen Brussels sprouts.
  3 onions.
  The yolks of 2 eggs.
  1 gill of rich sauce.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  12 small rounds of bread without crust.

Slice the onions and boil them with the beans in the water for one and a
quarter hours, then add the salt and boil again without the saucepan
lid, until the beans are dry. When quite dry rub them through a wire
sieve, place the pulp in a small stewpan, add the yolks of eggs and the
sauce, and stir over a gentle heat until the eggs thicken, but not boil,
or they will curdle; then stir in the potato. Butter the rounds of bread
(which should be about two and a half inches in diameter) on both sides,
lay in a baking tin, and spread the mixture very thickly on them. Bake
in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Then place a cooked sprout in
the centre of each round, and replace in the oven for a few minutes to
re-heat before serving.


No. 80.--Savoury Haricots on Toast.

  1 pint water.
  ½ pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 tablespoon cream or milk.
  1 teaspoon lemon juice.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  A very little grated nutmeg.
  A very little pepper.
  A little cooked spinach.
  4 eggs.
  4 rounds hot buttered toast.

Stew the haricot beans gently for three hours, rub through a wire sieve
with a wooden spoon, add cream, salt, lemon juice, pepper and nutmeg,
have ready four poached or baked eggs, four small rounds of buttered
toast, and a little cooked and seasoned spinach. Place a layer of the
haricot cream on the toast (about a quarter of an inch thick), then a
layer of spinach, stamp out the yolks of the eggs with a pastry cutter
leaving a quarter of an inch border of white, and place one on the top
of each round. This is a very pretty and tasty dish.


No. 81.--Haricot Beans with Eggs.

  3 tablespoons cooked haricot beans.
  3 tablespoons liquor from ditto.
  1 tablespoon mashed potatoes.
  3 or 4 eggs.
  Salt and pepper to taste.
  2 teaspoons Worcester sauce.
  1 teaspoon fine mixed herbs.
  2 teaspoons browned bread crumbs.

Mix the beans (which should have been cooked according to No. 43,
omitting the potatoes), the liquor, potatoes and seasonings, except the
herbs, well together, pour into a flat pie dish, break on the top as
many eggs as are needed to cover the mixture, sprinkle over them the
bread crumbs and herbs mixed, and bake until the eggs are set.


No. 82.--Haricot Beans Garnished.

  ½ pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 pint water.
  1 flat teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  1 onion.
  A sprig of parsley.
  A strip of lemon peel.
  A pinch of sweet herbs.
  A pinch of powdered mace.
  The juice of half a lemon.

Boil the beans as in No. 149, and leave them to dry off as directed,
but in a warm place and with a cloth over them. Place the liquor which
has been strained from them in a small stewpan, with the vegetables
sliced very thin, the parsley, lemon peel, herbs, and pepper, and boil
for half an hour. Strain and thicken with the flour and half an ounce of
the butter. Toss the beans gently in the other half ounce of butter, to
which has been added the mace and lemon juice. Pile the beans in the
centre of a hot dish, pour round them the gravy, garnish with cut lemon,
parsley, and sippets of toast, and serve.


No. 83.--Haricot Mould (Hot).

  2 tablespoons sago.
  4 tablespoons cooked haricot beans.
  1 pint stock.
  ½ ounce butter.
  Seasoning to taste.

Place the butter and stock in a stewpan, and if the stock be not already
very highly flavoured, add seasonings, such as a slice of lemon, half a
dozen peppercorns, a good teaspoon of curry powder, and a shalot, or if
curry powder be not liked, half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, or half a
tablespoonful of Worcester sauce may be substituted. Boil altogether for
fifteen minutes, then strain, return to the stewpan, add sago and beans
and stir briskly until it becomes quite thick, turn into a greased
mould, stand the mould in a tin or plate containing a little water, and
bake for half an hour with a cover on. When set, allow it to cool
slightly before turning out, then serve with a border of spinach or
tasty greens (see No. 148); or it may be allowed to get quite cold, then
cut in slices, and fried.


No. 84.--Lentil Cakes.

A Savoury.

  ¼ pound flour.
  2 ounces butter.
  A pinch of salt.
  ¼ pound cooked lentils and vegetables mixed.
  Frying oil.
  ½ teaspoon baking powder.

Mix the flour, butter, salt and baking powder well together, then work
in the lentils and vegetables, which should have been previously minced.
Mix all thoroughly, and roll out about half an inch thick, stamp into
rounds with a pastry cutter or any fancy shape, and fry in boiling oil
until quite brown.

This is a very good way of using up lentils and vegetables which have
been used for making gravy.

Note.--These cakes are specially recommended to travellers.


No. 85.--Savoury Mixture.

  1 ounce bread crumbs.
  ½ ounce parsley.
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind.
  1 small shalot.
  The yolk of one egg.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  ½ teaspoon curry powder.

Chop the shalot and parsley until very fine, mix well with the other dry
ingredients, and then stir in the yolk of egg.


No. 86.--Savoury Mixture.

Another way.

  2 tablespoons of bread crumbs.
  2 tablespoons of chopped parsley.
  2 shalots.
  1 egg.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  1 teaspoon salt.

Chop the shalots and mix with the other ingredients, adding the egg
last, and stir all well together.


No. 87.--Mushrooms à la Française.

  ½ pound mushrooms.
  3 shalots.
  1 gill tomato sauce.
  1 gill of good brown stock.
  1 teaspoon chopped parsley.
  1 tablespoon vinegar.
  1 small lump of sugar.
  Pepper and salt to taste.
  2 potatoes.
  2 Jerusalem artichokes.
  A few drops of lemon juice.
  1 ounce butter.

Chop the shalots very fine, and place them in a small stewpan with the
vinegar and a shake of pepper, and simmer until the vinegar is reduced
to half the quantity, then add tomato sauce (see No. 155), stock, sugar,
and one or two chopped mushrooms. Simmer for twenty minutes, add the
parsley and lemon juice, and simmer again for five minutes without the
lid. In the meantime, bake the mushrooms in the butter, and prepare the
potatoes and artichokes as follows:--peel and cut them into straws about
one inch long, and fry in boiling oil for about ten minutes, or until
they turn a golden brown colour. Place the mushrooms on a very hot dish,
pour the sauce over them, scatter the fried straws on the top, and serve
very quickly.


No. 88.--Savoury Pancakes.

  2 eggs.
  2 ounces flour.
  ½ pint milk.
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon mixed sweet herbs.
  1 shalot, or small onion.
  A shake of pepper.
  Butter for frying.

Place the flour, herbs, salt, lemon rind, pepper and shalot very finely
minced together in a basin; in another basin have ready the eggs beaten
and milk, pour this on to the flour, etc., stirring well with a wooden
spoon, and continue stirring until thoroughly mixed and free from lumps.
Take a perfectly clean small frying-pan (one should be kept for this
purpose), dissolve in it a small piece of butter, enough to grease the
pan, pour in just sufficient batter to cover the bottom, shake the pan
over a somewhat fierce heat, running a knife round the edges to loosen
them. When brown on the under side, toss or turn over the pancake and
brown on the other side, fold and lay on a hot dish.

Note.--This quantity of batter should make six pancakes.


No. 89.--Green Peas and Carrots on Toast.

  10 or 12 button carrots.
  ½ pint fresh green peas.
  A little more than a gill of white stock.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 ounce flour.
  6 rounds of toasted bread.

Scrape and slice the carrots very thin and stew them in the butter until
quite tender, stir in the flour, then add the peas (cooked); pour in the
stock, and stir over the fire for ten or fifteen minutes. Butter the
toast, then spread the mixture on very thickly and serve hot. Salt and
pepper should be added to taste, and a sprig of mint may be used for
flavouring if liked.


No. 90.--Baked Potatoes with Sage and Onion.

  2 large potatoes.
  6 onions.
  2 teaspoons sage.
  1 ounce bread crumbs.
  2 ounces butter.
  ½ teaspoon each salt and pepper.

Peel the potatoes and cut them lengthways into slices about half an inch
thick, place six of these slices in a baking tin or dish which has been
well greased with one and a half ounces of the butter. In the meantime
peel and boil the onions for a quarter of an hour in a little salted
water, and the sage (tied in a piece of muslin) with them for the last
five minutes. Chop the onions and sage and mix with the bread crumbs,
salt, pepper and half an ounce of butter, and spread the mixture thickly
over the slices of potato, and bake for one and a half or two hours.

Apple sauce should be served with this dish and a rich gravy.


No. 91.--Casserole of Potatoes.

  1 pound mashed potatoes.
  2 tablespoons soaked lentils.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  ½ pint water.
  1 shalot, or small onion.
  1 egg.
  1 hard-boiled ditto.
  1 strip of lemon peel.
  1 small lump of sugar.
  2 teaspoons tomato sauce.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  Pepper to taste.

Boil the lentils, water, lemon-peel and half the butter gently for one
hour. Remove the lemon-peel and add the sugar, salt and shalot chopped,
and boil for fifteen minutes. Make a paste of the flour and the other
half ounce of butter, place this in the stew and stir briskly while it
boils for five minutes. Then add the tomato sauce and the hard-boiled
egg cut into the shape of dice. Have ready the mashed potato prepared as
follows:--place it on a small dish and shape into a ring or wall about
two and a half inches high and half an inch thick, ornament the outside
with a fork, brush over with egg, and brown in the oven. Pour the stew
into the hollow centre, and serve quickly.


No. 92.--Potato and Celery Balls.

  1 pound mashed potatoes.
  1 middling-sized head of celery.
  1 ounce butter or frying oil.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  A little pepper.

Wash the celery well, cut into pieces and stew in just sufficient water
to cover for half an hour, strain (the liquor may be used for flavouring
soups or sauces), chop very fine, mix well with the potatoes, adding
pepper and salt, roll into balls or cakes, and fry in butter or plunge
into boiling oil until nicely brown. They should be rolled in egg and
bread crumbs before frying in oil.


No. 93.--Potatoes and Eggs with Celery Sauce.

  3 eggs.
  2 potatoes.
  12 peppercorns.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 ounce flour.
  1 pinch of mace.
  1 small head of celery.
  1 small onion.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 pint water.
  1 gill of milk.

Peel the potatoes, and let them simmer gently in a pint of water with
the celery and onions sliced, the peppercorns, mace and salt, until the
potatoes are quite tender, but not broken. Boil the eggs until hard.
Slice the potatoes, taking care to obtain three nice even slices from
each potato, lay these on a hot dish, shell the eggs, cut them in half,
remove the ends so that they will stand, and place half an egg on each
slice of potato; strain the sauce, add milk, thicken with butter and
flour, and pour over the eggs. A little vinegar or ketchup may be poured
over the slices of potato before placing the eggs, if liked, or chopped
parsley may be added to the sauce.


No. 94.--Fried Potato with Eggs.

A nice Breakfast Dish.

  9 thick slices of cold potato.
  3 hard-boiled eggs.
  1 ounce butter for frying.
  1 gill of good sauce.
  A little parsley.

Fry the slices of potato until a nice brown, lay them on a hot dish,
remove the ends of the hard-boiled eggs, and cut each egg into three
slices, placing one on each piece of potato; sprinkle over them the
chopped parsley and the sauce, which should be rather thick. Serve
quickly.

Note.--Scald the parsley (before chopping) by throwing it into boiling
salted water for a few minutes.


No. 95.--Potato Olives.

  Potatoes.
  Forcemeat No. 77.
  Frying oil.

Take some large, evenly-shaped potatoes, peel and wipe dry, slice them
lengthways in pieces about one-eighth of an inch thick and lay in a
clean cloth to thoroughly dry. Place them in a frying basket, and fry
in boiling oil until they begin to change colour, then place them on
a piece of paper and put on one side to cool; place a thick layer of
forcemeat between two slices of potato in the form of a sandwich, tie
with white thread, and re-fry until the potato becomes a golden brown.
Remove the thread, and serve with sauces Nos. 172 or 177.


No. 96.--Potato Pyramids.

  2 parsnips.
  Mashed potato.
  1 gill of sauce No. 177.
  1 ounce butter.
  Pepper and salt to taste.

Boil the parsnips whole until tender, but do not allow them to break,
place on one side to cool, then cut three thick slices from the big end
of each parsnip, and if not a good shape remove the edges with a round
pastry cutter. Fry in the butter until brown both sides, sprinkling over
them a little salt and pepper; place in a very hot dish, and pile a
little mountain of hot mashed potato on each round. The potato must be
rather stiff so as to keep its shape, and should stand about three
inches high, tapering towards the tops; pour over each a little of the
sauce, and serve quickly.

Carrot, turnip, toast or fried bread may be used for the bases in place
of parsnips.


No. 97.--Stuffed Potatoes.

  8 good-sized potatoes.
  20 button mushrooms.
  2 hard-boiled eggs.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 teaspoon sweet herbs.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 tablespoon minced parsley.
  1 tablespoon milk or cream.
  2 tablespoons bread crumbs.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  1 egg.

Wash the potatoes well and boil them gently in their skins for fifteen
minutes, lift them carefully out and place on one side to cool. Mix
together all the ingredients for the stuffing, cut the potatoes
carefully in half, scoop out the centres with a sharp pointed knife and
fill the hollow places with the mixture. Remove the skins, and brush
over the divided parts of the potatoes with egg, join again and bind
with thread if necessary, place in a baking tin with the butter, which
has been previously melted, and bake in a hot oven twenty or thirty
minutes. Serve with white sauce Nos. 184 or 185.


No. 98.--Stuffed Potatoes.

Another way.

  6 medium-sized potatoes.
  3 tablespoons fine bread crumbs.
  2 teaspoons sage.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  2 onions.
  1 tablespoon cooked rice.
  1 egg.
  1 ounce butter.

Proceed as in previous recipe, substituting this stuffing. Take care to
well brown the potatoes on both sides by turning them in the tin, and
serve apple sauce as an accompaniment, also brown sauce No. 177.


No. 99.--Savoury Rice Balls.

  ½ pound cooked rice.
  ¼ pound mashed potatoes.
  2 teaspoons parsley.
  2 shalots.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon mixed herbs.
  A little pepper.
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind.
  Egg and bread crumbs.

Chop the parsley and shalots, and mix well with the other ingredients,
shape into small balls, roll in the egg and bread crumbs, and fry in
boiling oil until they become a golden brown colour, which will be in
about half a minute.


No. 100.--Savoury Rissoles.

  4 ounces mashed potatoes.
  4 ounces cooked greens of any kind.
  4 ounces cooked semolina.
  1 onion.
  1 egg.
  2 tablespoons of sauce superbe No. 177.
  1 tablespoon of Worcester sauce.
  Pepper and salt to taste.
  ½ ounce of butter.
  A little short pastry.

Mix the potatoes, greens, semolina, sauces, pepper and salt together,
slice and fry the onion in the butter, and add to the mixture with half
the beaten egg, and stir well again. A few fine bread crumbs may be
added to give consistency if required. Roll the pastry out rather thin,
cut into four-inch squares. Place about half a tablespoon of the mixture
in the centre of each square, moisten the edges, and fold neatly over.
Brush over the tops with the remainder of the egg, and fry in boiling
oil until they turn a light brown.


No. 101.--Sage and Onion Patties.

  Sage and onion stuffing.
  Mashed potato.
  Butter.

Well butter some small patty pans, nearly fill them with the stuffing,
then pile up with very rich mashed potato. Bake until nicely brown, turn
out and serve quickly.

These are very suitable for a supper dish. The addition of apple sauce
and gravy will be found an improvement.


No. 102.--Sausages.

  ½ pint soaked lentils.
  1½ pints water.
  4 teaspoons sage.
  1 teaspoon mixed herbs.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 teaspoon pepper.
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind.
  A little grated nutmeg.
  ½ ounce butter.
  1 egg.
  ½ pound bread crumbs.
  3 onions.
  Egg and bread crumbs.
  Frying oil.

Boil the lentils in the water for one and a half hours, then add the
onions sliced and salt, and boil for half an hour longer; stir in the
butter, herbs, pepper and lemon rind, and leave the lid of the saucepan
off for a little while so that the lentils may dry. Turn the mixture out
on to a chopping board, chop it, add beaten egg and bread crumbs, form
into nicely-shaped sausages, roll in the other egg and bread crumbs, and
fry in boiling oil until a rich brown. Serve them standing up round
mashed potatoes.

Note.--Mustard should be served with the above.


No. 103.--Sausages in Batter.

  Batter No. 197.
  Sausage mixture No. 102.

Well butter a baking tin, lay in as many sausages as are required (they
should not be too close together), pour the batter round them, and bake
about three quarters of an hour.

Note.--The sausages should not be fried before being cooked in the
batter. Forcemeat sausages will do equally well.


No. 104.--Brussels Sprouts Sausages.

  4 ounces cooked sprouts.
  2 ounces mashed potatoes.
  2 ounces bread crumbs.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 teaspoon sage.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  1 egg and bread crumbs.

Mix the vegetables, bread crumbs and flavouring well together, moisten
with half the egg, form into sausages, roll in the other half of egg and
bread crumbs, and fry in the one ounce of butter or boiling oil.


No. 105.--Sausages with Curry Flavour.

  1 dozen button mushrooms.
  2 hard-boiled eggs.
  3 tablespoons bread crumbs.
  ½ teaspoon curry powder.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  A little pepper.
  1 beaten egg.

Mince finely the eggs and mushrooms, add curry powder, salt, pepper, and
one tablespoonful of the bread crumbs (which should be very fine); bind
altogether with half the beaten egg and shape into little sausages, roll
them in the remainder of the egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling
oil until brown (about half a minute). Sufficient for two persons.


No. 106.--Lentil and Tomato Sausages with Piquante Sauce.

  1 pound soaked lentils.
  1 tin tomatoes.
  1 onion.
  1 egg.
  1½ teaspoons salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  ¼ pound bread crumbs.
  1 ounce each butter and flour.

Boil the lentils and onion sliced in the tomato juice (having previously
strained away the pulp) for one and a half hours; add one teaspoonful of
salt and a quarter of pepper; strain. When cool, take a quarter of a
pound of the lentils, add the remainder of the seasoning and the tomato
pulp, which must have been squeezed quite dry, chop all fine, add three
ounces of bread crumbs and half a beaten egg. Shape into little
sausages, roll in the remainder of the egg and bread crumbs, and fry in
boiling oil. Thicken the liquor which was strained off with the butter
and flour, and serve separately.

Note.--The remaining lentils can be used in a variety of ways.


No. 107.--Savoury Sausages.

  ¼ Pound cooked cabbage.
  ¼ pound mashed potatoes.
  1 hard-boiled egg.
  2 slices of beetroot.
  2 teaspoons mint sauce.
  1 ounce fine bread crumbs.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  1 egg and bread crumbs.

Mince the cabbage, boiled egg and beetroot very fine, mix with them the
potatoes, bread crumbs, mint sauce, salt and pepper; stir well together,
adding a teaspoonful of the beaten egg. Shape into twelve sausages,
roll in the remainder of the egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling
oil until a golden brown. Serve piled on a hot dish, and garnish with
parsley. Peas, new potatoes, mint sauce and brown gravy should, when in
season, be served with this dish.


No. 108.--Semolina Sausages.

  8 ounces mashed potatoes.
  8 ounces sprouts or cabbage.
  6 ounces cooked semolina.
  2 ounces bread crumbs.
  2 teaspoons mixed herbs.
  1 egg.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  Egg and bread crumbs.

Mix all thoroughly together, form into sausages, roll them in egg and
bread crumbs, and fry in butter or boiling oil until a golden brown.
Serve piled on a dish with parsley as a garnish.


No. 109.--Savoury Semolina.

  2 ounces semolina.
  ½ pint water.
  1 small onion.
  2 eggs.
  ½ teaspoon of salt.
  ½ teaspoon sweet herbs.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  1 ounce butter.

Place the semolina, water, chopped onion, pepper, herbs, salt, and half
the butter in a small saucepan, and simmer for twenty minutes, stirring
frequently. Then stand the saucepan on one side for a few minutes to
cool slightly. Beat the eggs, add them to the mixture, stir well
together, and pour into a baking dish or tin which has been greased with
the remainder of the butter. Bake half to three-quarters of an hour.

May be eaten hot or cold, or is very nice cut into small pieces and
fried in butter.


No. 110.--Savoury Semolina and Cheese.

  3 tablespoons semolina.
  ½ pint water.
  2 eggs.
  4 ounces grated cheese.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 small onion.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  ½ teaspoon mixed herbs.

Boil the semolina in the water for twenty minutes, stirring very
frequently, then place on one side to cool. Grate the cheese, mince the
onion very fine, and add them, with the yolks of the eggs, pepper, salt,
and herbs, to the semolina, and mix all well together. Beat the whites
of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them the last thing, taking care that
all is well mixed, and pour into a pie dish in which one ounce of butter
has been dissolved. Bake in a moderate oven for about three quarters of
an hour.


No. 111.--Spanish Onions Stuffed.

  6 large Spanish onions.
  1 ounce cooked vermicelli.
  ½ ounce bread crumbs.
  ¼ ounce oiled butter.
  1 egg.
  1 teaspoon cream or milk.
  1 teaspoon chopped parsley.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon grated lemon rind.
  ¼ teaspoon mixed herbs.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  1 ounce butter for baking.

Boil the onions in salted water for half an hour, then remove the skins
and scoop out the centres, chop these very fine and add to the other
ingredients, including the egg, and stir well. Fill the onions with this
mixture, place them in a baking dish containing the ounce of butter, and
bake three hours covered over. Baste them occasionally. Serve with the
gravy.

Note.--Rice, semolina, etc., may be used in place of the vermicelli.


No. 112.--Spinach with Peas and Tomatoes.

  2 pounds spinach.
  ½ pound shelled green peas.
  1 onion.
  ½ pint tomato juice.
  A little pepper.
  3 teaspoons salt.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  A little water.

Place the peas, the onion sliced, one teaspoonful of salt, and half a
pint of water in a stewpan, and boil with the lid off until the peas are
tender. Have ready the tomato juice thickened with half ounce each of
flour and butter, add to the peas and stir well. In the meantime, cook
the spinach (which must have been well washed and picked) in a little
water and the remainder of the salt. When tender, strain through a
colander, well press out the water, turn the spinach on to a
chopping-board, chop very fine, then place it into a stewpan containing
half an ounce of butter and stir over a brisk fire for a few minutes,
adding pepper to taste. Turn the spinach on to a hot dish, pour over the
peas, and serve with sippets of toast.


No. 113.--Surprise Balls.

  6 ounces cooked greens of any kind.
  12 ounces mashed potatoes.
  1 egg.
  10 or 12 forcemeat balls.
  Egg and bread crumbs.

Chop the greens thoroughly, and mix them with the mashed potatoes and
egg; envelop each forcemeat ball with a thick layer of this mixture,
roll in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling oil until a nice brown.


No. 114.--Toad-in-the-Hole.

  ¼ pound cooked lentils.
  ¼ pound mashed potatoes.
  1 teaspoon mixed herbs.
  Half an egg.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  ½ ounce butter.
  Batter.

Chop the lentils, add potatoes, herbs, salt, pepper and egg, shape into
six sausages, and fry in the butter until brown. Make a batter, No. 197,
well grease a good-sized pie-dish, place the sausages in, pour the
batter over, and bake in a moderate oven about thirty minutes.


No. 115.--Tomatoes in Batter.

(Plain.)

  4 fresh tomatoes.
  2 eggs.
  2 teaspoons flour.
  ½ pint milk.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.

Scald and peel the tomatoes, and cut them in half (as one would split
open a tea cake), and lay them cut side upwards in a baking tin which
has been well greased with half an ounce of butter, sprinkle over them
the pepper and salt, and place a small knob of butter on each half, pour
in the batter, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour.


No. 116.--Tomatoes in Batter.

(Seasoned.)

  3 large tomatoes.
  Batter.
  Forcemeat.

Proceed as in No. 115, but in addition place on each half tomato a thick
layer of forcemeat, or any kind of savoury mixture, of which various
recipes will be found in these pages.


No. 117.--Tomato and Egg on Toast.

  6 eggs.
  8 ounces tomato pulp.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 shalot.
  ½ teaspoon flour.
  ¾ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  Buttered toast.

Chop the tomato and shalot, then place them in a small stewpan with the
butter, pepper and salt; simmer gently for about five minutes, stirring
all the time with a wooden spoon; add the flour by degrees, and stir
again until it thickens (about two minutes). Have ready six baked or
poached eggs, and six rounds of hot buttered toast; spread the tomato
mixture on the toast, cover with the eggs, and serve quickly.


No. 118.--Turnips with Poached Eggs.

  1 bunch turnips.
  2 quarts water.
  1 tablespoon salt.
  2 teaspoons chopped watercress.
  Some browned breadcrumbs.
  4 eggs.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1 teaspoon white pepper.

Peel and quarter the turnips, and boil them in the salt and water until
tender; strain and press the water well out, return them to the saucepan
(which should be first rinsed and wiped), add butter, and beat them well
with a strong fork over a gentle heat; add pepper, then turn into a flat
pie dish, but do not quite fill it. Break four eggs on the top, sprinkle
over them the watercress and a little salt, also the bread crumbs and
half ounce butter broken in small pieces, and bake until the eggs are
set, but not hard.

Note.--An ornamental pie dish should be used, as it must go to table.


No. 119.--Vegetable Marrow with Potato Balls.

  1 vegetable marrow.
  10 or 12 floury potatoes.
  1 egg.
  1½ ounces butter.
  Pepper and salt.

Peel the potatoes, boil until tender, strain, and dry them well. Mash
with a large fork, add pepper and salt to taste, half an ounce of butter
and the yolk of egg, beat the white to a stiff froth and add last. Form
the potatoes into nice-shaped balls about the size of a small orange,
and place them in a baking tin in which one ounce of butter has been
dissolved, brush them over with a little of the butter, and brown in the
oven. In the meantime, boil the vegetable marrow whole until tender
(from half to three-quarters of an hour), when done, peel it, cut it
into slices about one and a half inches thick, remove the seeds, lay the
pieces in a dish, and place in the oven for a few minutes to dry off;
then sprinkle a little pepper and salt over, and place a ball of potato
in the centre of each piece of marrow. Pour tomato or other sauce over,
and serve.


No. 120.--Vegetable Marrow Rings with Tomato Batter.

  1 medium-sized vegetable marrow.
  8 ounces tomato pulp.
  1 egg.
  1 tablespoon flour.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 gill milk.
  A little pepper and salt.

Peel the vegetable marrow, cut it into even rings about three-quarters
of an inch thick, and remove the seeds neatly (this is best done by the
aid of a pastry cutter). Dissolve the butter in a baking tin, place the
rings in, sprinkle a little salt on them, and bake in a hot oven for
half an hour, then turn them over and bake another half hour. Meanwhile
prepare the batter as follows:--take half a pound of cooked tomato pulp,
as dry as possible, and chop it well; add pepper and salt if not already
seasoned. Make a batter with the egg, flour and milk, add the tomato
pulp, and stir all well together. When the rings of marrow have been
cooking one hour, remove from the oven, fill up the centres with the
batter, replace in the oven, and bake another half hour.

Tomato sauce No. 179 should be served with this dish, which can be
specially recommended.


No. 121.--Vegetable Marrow Stuffed.

  1 medium-sized vegetable marrow.
  4 ounces semolina.
  1 pint water.
  2 eggs.
  1 onion.
  1 teaspoon sweet herbs.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 teaspoon pepper.
  2 ounces butter.

After washing the marrow, cut off one end and scoop out all the seeds.
Place in a saucepan the butter, semolina, onion chopped fine, sweet
herbs, salt, pepper, and water; boil for fifteen minutes, then stand on
one side to cool slightly; add the eggs beaten up, stuff the marrow with
the mixture, and tie on the end. Grease a baking dish or tin with the
remainder of the butter, and place in it the marrow. Bake for two hours,
or until quite tender, basting frequently and turning it occasionally.

Note.--A suitable sauce for this dish may be made by boiling the seeds
in half a pint of water with a little salt, then strain and thicken with
half ounce each of flour and butter. A sprig of mint may be used for
flavouring. After dishing up the marrow, turn the sauce into the tin to
brown, and pour through a strainer over the marrow.


No. 122.--Vegetable Marrow Stuffed.

Another way.

  1 medium-sized vegetable marrow.
  3 ounces bread crumbs.
  2 onions.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  A little sage.

Slice and fry the onions in the butter until they are a nice brown, then
chop them very fine, mix with the other ingredients, and proceed as
already described in No. 121.


No. 123.--Vermicelli and Cheese.

  2 ounces vermicelli.
  3 ounces grated cheese.
  1 pint milk.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 egg.
  ½ ounce butter.

Stew the vermicelli in the milk for five minutes, stir in the grated
cheese, and allow to cook for another five minutes; add salt, then take
the stewpan off the fire. When slightly cooled, break the egg, drop the
white into a basin, and the yolk into the stewpan. Whip the white to a
stiff froth, add to the mixture, and stir; pour into a buttered pie
dish, and bake for about twenty minutes.




SOUFFLÉS


No. 124.--Bread Soufflé.

As a Sweet or a Savoury.

  2 eggs.
  4 tablespoons bread crumbs.
  ½ ounce butter for dish.
  3 teaspoons white sugar, or ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 teaspoon mixed herbs.

Beat the eggs, yolks and whites separately, add the sugar or salt and
herbs to the bread crumbs, and stir them well in, first with the yolks
and then the whites, which should be beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the
mixture into a flat pie dish, well greased, and bake in a moderate oven
from twenty to thirty minutes. Turn out, and serve with white sauce
sweetened or salted to taste.


No. 125.--Cauliflower Soufflé.

  3 eggs.
  8 ounces cooked cauliflower.
  ½ ounce butter for pie dish.
  ½ teaspoon salt.

Beat the eggs, the yolks and whites separately, the latter to a stiff
froth. Chop the cauliflower very fine, add salt, mix all together
thoroughly, turn into a well greased flat pie dish, and bake in a quick
oven for about twenty minutes. When done, remove from pie dish, and
serve very quickly.


No. 126.--Cauliflower and Potato Soufflé.

  3 ounces mashed potatoes.
  3 ounces of the white part of cauliflower.
  ½ ounce butter.
  3 eggs.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  ½ ounce butter.

Beat the eggs well, whites and yolks separately, then add the potatoes,
the cauliflower chopped very fine, and the seasonings. Stir all well
together, then fill small patty pans (which have been well greased), and
bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. A small knob of butter placed
on the top will help to brown them, and any flavouring, such as chopped
onion, parsley, or herbs, may be added if liked.


No. 127.--Soufflé Garnie.

  ½ pint white sauce.
  2 tablespoons mashed potatoes.
  2 ounces bread crumbs.
  2 eggs.
  ½ ounce butter for dish.
  1 teaspoon mixed herbs.
  1 medium-sized onion.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  1 small carrot for garnish.

Mix together the sauce, potatoes, bread crumbs, herbs, onion chopped
very fine, salt and pepper; add the yolks of eggs, and lastly the whites
beaten to a stiff froth. Have ready a flat pie dish well greased and
ornamented with carrot, which has been boiled and cut in fancy shapes;
pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour.

When done, turn out garnished side up, sprinkle over a few browned bread
crumbs, and serve very quickly.


No. 128.--Soufflés Moulded.

  3 ounces cooked Brussels sprouts.
  2 ounces mashed potato.
  1 ounce boiled rice.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  2 eggs.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 ounce butter.

Take the sprouts, potatoes, and rice, and chop them well, then place in
a mortar together with the seasonings and pound thoroughly; beat up the
eggs, yolks and whites separately, add them to the mixture; stir well,
then half fill six dariole moulds, which have been greased with the
ounce of butter. Bake for three-quarters of an hour, turn out and serve.
Or they may be allowed to cool, then rolled in egg and bread crumbs, and
fried in boiling oil a golden brown. Serve sauce No. 157 with them.


No. 129.--Haricot Bean Soufflé.

  ½ pound cooked haricot beans.
  1 large onion.
  1 teaspoon mixed herbs.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ ounce butter for dish.
  1 tomato.
  3 eggs.
  1 ditto hard boiled.


Mince the haricot beans (which should be cold and thoroughly dry) very
fine. Boil the onion whole until tender, chop and mix with the beans,
adding salt and herbs. Prepare a flat pie dish by greasing it well with
the butter, and decorate it with the tomato scalded, peeled, and cut in
slices, and the hard boiled egg also cut in slices; sprinkle over these
a little salt. Then beat up the other three eggs, whites and yolks
separately, the former to a stiff froth, thoroughly incorporate the
haricot bean mixture with the beaten eggs, pour carefully into the pie
dish so as not to disarrange the decorations, and bake in a moderate
oven from half to three-quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve quickly.

Note.--This makes a pretty dish if cooked in little moulds.


No. 130.--Haricot Soufflé with Béchamel Sauce.

  ½ pound soaked haricot beans.
  1 tablespoon cream or milk.
  Whites of 2 eggs.
  2 teaspoons of chopped parsley.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  1 pint water.
  Sauce No. 160.

Boil the beans for about two hours, or until they have absorbed all the
water; rub them through a wire sieve, add the parsley, salt, pepper,
cream and whites of eggs. Mix together, place in a very well buttered
pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. When cooked,
turn the soufflé out on to a hot dish; pour the sauce over, and serve
quickly.


No. 131.--Haricot and Spinach Soufflé.

  4 tablespoons finely-minced haricot beans.
  3 tablespoons minced spinach.
  2 eggs.
  Pepper and salt.

Mix the haricot beans and spinach (which must have been previously
cooked, seasoned, and minced) in a basin, add pepper and salt to taste.
Break the eggs, separating the yolks from the whites, beat first the
yolks and add them to the mixture, then the whites, which must be beaten
till a stiff froth; stir altogether, pour into a well-buttered pie dish,
and bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. Remove from pie dish
before serving. Tomato sauce No. 178 may be served with this dish.


No. 132.--Lentil Soufflé.

  1 tablespoon cooked lentils.
  1 shalot.
  3 eggs.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.

Mince very finely the lentils and shalot, add pepper and salt, beat the
eggs and mix altogether; place in a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake
about half an hour. Turn out on to a very hot dish, and serve at once
with lentil sauce Nos. 166 or 168.


No. 133.--Fresh Green Pea Soufflé.

  ½ pint young peas shelled.
  2 eggs.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ½ pint water.
  1 ounce butter.
  A sprig of mint.

Boil the peas in the water with half an ounce of butter, mint, and salt
for about half an hour, leaving the saucepan uncovered; when done,
remove the mint, and stand the saucepan on one side to cool a little.
Well grease a pie dish with the remainder of the butter, stir the yolks
of eggs into the peas, beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix
altogether, pour into the dish, and bake for about twenty minutes.


No. 134.--Petites Soufflé.

  ½ pound cooked sprouts.
  ½ pound mashed potatoes.
  3 eggs.
  1 tablespoon flour.
  ½ teaspoon each salt and pepper.
  ½ ounce butter.

Mix thoroughly the sprouts, potatoes, flour and seasonings, add the
yolks of the eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, then add to the
other ingredients, and stir all well together. Grease some patty pans,
fill with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty
minutes.


No. 135.--Tomato Soufflé.

  ¾ pint tomato juice.
  3 eggs.
  1 shalot.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  ½ ounce butter for dish.

Beat the yolks, and add to them the tomato juice (tinned will do), the
shalot finely minced, and the seasonings; have ready a pie dish which
has been well greased with the half ounce of butter, then beat the
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the mixture and stir
thoroughly; pour into the pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half
an hour. Turn out and serve quickly.




CURRIES.


No. 136.--Curried Beetroot and Cucumber.

  1 cucumber.
  1 beetroot.
  2 shalots.
  ½ pint water.
  1 teaspoon curry powder.
  2 tablespoons cooked haricot beans.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 teaspoon flour.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.

Slice the cucumber, beetroot and shalots, and fry for ten minutes in the
butter; add pepper, salt, curry powder and flour, mix well and add
water. Simmer for half an hour, stirring frequently.


No. 137.--Curried Eggs.

  Hard-boiled eggs.
  Curry sauce.

Boil as many eggs as are required, remove the shells, then with a very
sharp knife cut them in half and remove a small portion of the white at
each end, so that they will stand yolk upwards; pour over them a curry
sauce, and serve hot.

Note.--This dish may be varied by placing a small round of fried bread,
or a slice of fried potato, under each half of egg.


No. 138.--Curried Haricot Beans.

  ½ pint soaked haricots.
  1 onion.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  2 teaspoons curry powder.
  1 quart water.
  Juice of ½ lemon.
  1 teaspoon Worcester sauce.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1½ ounces flour.

Simmer the beans and vegetables sliced for two hours, add seasoning,
thicken with the butter and flour, and serve with boiled rice.


No. 139.--Curried Haricot Beans.

Another way.

  1 pint sauce superbe.
  1 onion sliced and fried.
  2 teaspoons curry powder.
  The juice of half a lemon.
  1 pound cooked haricot beans.
  Cooked rice.

Place the sauce, curry powder, and lemon juice in a stewpan, and stir
over the fire for ten minutes, then add the fried onion and beans,
simmer another ten minutes, and serve with boiled rice.

Note.--This is a delicious curry. Cooked lentils may be used in place of
haricot beans.


No. 140.--Curried Lentils.

  ¼ pint soaked lentils.
  1 pint water.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1 small apple.
  1 onion.
  A pinch of powdered mace.
  1 teaspoon flour.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  6 peppercorns.
  ½ teaspoon white sugar.
  1 teaspoon curry powder.
  2 teaspoons vinegar.

Simmer the lentils with the peppercorns (tied up in a piece of muslin)
and mace for one hour, add the salt, remove the peppercorns and strain.
In the meantime slice the onion, mince the apple, and fry them together
in the butter for ten minutes, place in a stewpan together with two
tablespoons of the lentils, the sugar, flour and curry powder, mix well
together, add the liquor of the lentils, and simmer for half an hour,
stirring frequently; add the vinegar before serving. Serve rice in a
separate dish.


No. 141.--Curried Tomatoes.

  6 tomatoes.
  1 ounce of butter.
  ½ pint curry sauce.
  Pepper and salt.

Slice the tomatoes without peeling them, and lay in a tin greased with
half the butter; divide the rest of the butter into small pieces, and
place a piece in the centre of each slice; sprinkle with pepper and
salt, and bake for fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, place in a hot
dish, pour over them the sauce, which should be rather thick, and serve.


No. 142.--Curried Turnips.

  Turnips.
  Butter.
  Curry sauce.
  Boiled rice

Peel and slice the turnips, and stamp or trim the slices so as to have
them as even as possible; fry them a golden brown in a little butter,
lay in a hot dish, pour over them the sauce (hot), make a border of the
rice, and serve.

Note.--The rice may be omitted.




VEGETABLES.


No. 143.--Artichokes with Sauce Royale.

  3 pounds artichokes.
  ½ pint water.
  ¾ teaspoon salt.
  1 pint sauce No. 172.

Wash and peel the artichokes, and boil for twenty minutes in the salt
and water. Should any of the water then remain, leave lid off for a few
minutes to allow it to evaporate. Turn the artichokes into a hot
vegetable dish and pour over them the sauce, which must have been
thoroughly heated previously.


No. 144.--Fried Beetroot.

(A Breakfast Dish.)

  1 medium-sized beet.
  2 ounces butter for frying.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon pepper.
  2 teaspoons flour.
  2 tablespoons vinegar.
  1 tablespoon water.

Peel the beetroot, and cut into slices about a quarter of an inch thick.
Dissolve the butter in a frying pan, place in the beetroot and fry for
twenty minutes, sprinkling each slice on both sides with the pepper and
salt. When done, arrange the slices on a hot dish. Reset the frying pan
on the fire, stir in the flour, thoroughly mixing it with the butter,
and fry for a couple of minutes, stirring all the time, then pour in the
water and vinegar, stir until quite smooth; pour over the beetroot and
serve quickly.


No. 145.--Brussels Sprouts.

  Sprouts.
  Salted water.

Clean the sprouts _very thoroughly_, removing all the decayed and
outside leaves, and when perfectly free from dirt and insects, place
them in plenty of fast-boiling salted water, and boil for about twenty
minutes, or until quite tender but not broken. Keep the lid off all the
time they are cooking, remove the scum as it rises, and be sure and use
_no_ soda. When they are tender, have ready a colander with a cloth laid
in it, lift the sprouts out with an egg slice, and lay them carefully on
the cloth to drain, place about a dozen of the best shaped ones on a hot
plate or dish, slide the remainder gently off the cloth on to a hot
drainer in a vegetable dish, and arrange the reserved ones on the top.

Sprouts are often spoiled in the dishing up, but no vegetable looks and
tastes nicer if properly cooked and served.


No. 146.--French Beans.

  1 pint tomato juice.
  1 shalot.
  1 pound cooked French beans.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  A little pepper.
  Thickening of flour and butter.

Slice the shalot, and stew it in the tomato juice for about half an
hour. Strain, add pepper and salt, and thicken the juice with the flour
and butter. Lay the French beans in, and thoroughly re-heat.

Note.--Tinned beans may be used, when fresh ones are not obtainable.


No. 147.--A nice way of serving Greens.

  2 pounds greens.
  Salted water.
  1 ounce butter.

Boil the greens (Scotch kale, broccoli tops, etc.) in the usual way.
When quite tender, strain and press well, place on a board and chop very
finely; dissolve the butter in a stewpan, place in the greens, add a
little pepper and more salt if required, and stir briskly over the fire
for two or three minutes. Serve in a hot vegetable dish.


No. 148.--Tasty Greens.

  2 eggs.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ pound cooked greens of any kind.
  Salt and pepper to taste.

Dissolve the butter in a small stewpan, beat up the eggs, add them to
the butter, and stir over the fire until the sauce thickens, but on no
account allow it to boil; add the greens, which should be finely chopped
(see No. 147), also seasoning if required, and continue stirring over a
gentle heat for two or three minutes.


No. 149.--Haricot Beans.

  1 pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 pint water.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 ounce butter.

Boil the beans in the water for half an hour, add salt, and boil again
gently for another half or three-quarters of an hour; strain away the
liquor, and leave the beans in the colander to dry off. Dissolve the
butter in a stewpan, gently toss the beans in it, taking care not to
break them, and serve.

Either chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, or lemon juice may be added to
the butter, but the beans are extremely good quite plain.

Note.--They may also be served in the liquor. See General Hints, page 1.


No. 150.--Mushrooms Baked.

  1 dozen mushrooms.
  1 ounce butter.
  2 tablespoonsful water.
  Pepper and salt.

Peel the mushrooms, removing part of the stalks, and lay them (stalks
upwards) in a flat baking tin or dish containing the water; place a
small piece of the butter in the centre of each mushroom, pepper and
salt them to taste; cover them, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty
or thirty minutes. Serve very hot.

Note.--Great care must be taken that the mushrooms are quite free from
insects before cooking.


No. 151.--Green Peas Boiled.

  1 pint shelled peas.
  1 pint water.
  A sprig of mint.
  1 ounce butter.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.

Wash the peas, and place them in a stewpan with the other ingredients,
simmer with the lid off until they are quite tender, remove the mint and
serve. The small quantity of liquor which remains will be found useful
for flavouring sauces, stews, etc.

Note.--This way of cooking peas is greatly superior to that of putting
them into a large quantity of water, as there is no waste and the entire
flavour and nutriment of the vegetable are retained.


No. 152.--Mashed Potatoes.

  ½ dozen large potatoes.
  1 ounce fresh butter.
  3 tablespoons milk.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.

Wash and scrub the potatoes until perfectly free from dirt and mould,
bake them, and when done prick with a fork to allow the steam to escape,
then wipe with a cloth to remove any charred skin, etc. Have ready a
good-sized saucepan (enamelled for preference) in which the milk and
butter have been heated, halve the potatoes and squeeze them into it,
add salt and pepper (the latter should be omitted when being prepared
for children), then with a cook's fork beat backwards and forwards, then
round and round, until the whole mass is perfectly smooth and quite free
from lumps. Turn into a very hot vegetable dish, arrange in a pile and
mark prettily with a fork or knife, then place in the oven for two or
three minutes to re-heat.

Note.--Potatoes prepared in this way constitute an ideal diet. All the
valuable salts are retained instead of being thrown away in the water,
as when peeled before cooking, whilst the butter and milk supply the
fatty elements in which the potato is lacking. The colour also is good,
which is not the case when they are _boiled_ in their skins, and the
taste is delicious.


No. 153.--New Potatoes Fried.

  20 very small new potatoes.
  1 egg.
  2 ounces bread crumbs.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  A pinch each of powdered mace and sweet herbs.

Boil the potatoes twenty minutes, then drain and remove the skins. Mix
well together the salt, pepper, mace, sweet herbs, and bread crumbs.
Roll the potatoes first in the egg, then in the savoury bread crumbs,
and fry in boiling oil until a golden brown.

Serve with sauce piquante No. 171.


No. 154.--Salsify.

  1 dozen roots of salsify.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  1 slice of lemon.
  ½ pint water.
  1 gill of milk.
  ½ teaspoon salt.

Scrape the salsify, and throw it into cold water, cut into pieces about
two inches long, and place in an enamelled stewpan with the water, milk,
lemon, salt, and half an ounce of butter. Boil one hour or until quite
tender, remove the lemon, lift out the salsify and place in a warm
vegetable dish, thicken the liquor with the other half ounce of butter
and the flour, pour over the salsify and serve.


No. 155.--Tomatoes.

  1 dozen tomatoes.
  1½ ounces butter.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.

Scald the tomatoes by pouring boiling water over them, then place in
cold water for half a minute. Remove the skins, which will now come off
quite easily, slice the tomatoes into about four pieces with a very
sharp knife. Have ready a stewpan in which the butter has been dissolved,
place the tomatoes in it, add the seasoning, and stew gently for about
twenty minutes, stirring frequently.

Note.--When strained, this constitutes a very choice sauce, and it may
be slightly thickened.




SAUCES.


No. 156.--Sauce à la bonne femme.

  2 tomatoes.
  1 green apple.
  1 leek.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 teaspoon lemon juice.
  ½ pint lentil or haricot bean stock.
  ½ teaspoon mixed herbs.
  Salt and pepper to taste.

Dissolve the butter in a small stewpan, then place in the vegetables
sliced, and fry for twenty minutes, but do not allow to burn; add stock,
lemon juice, salt and pepper, and simmer for half an hour. Strain before
using. May be thickened if required.

Note.--This is a very suitable sauce for pouring over fried beans,
lentils, potatoes, etc.


No. 157.--Sauce à la petite cuisinière.

  1 pint haricot beans.
  1 quart water.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  2 teaspoons lemon juice.
  ½ ounce brown flour.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 sprig parsley.

Boil the beans and parsley for two hours, add salt, strain, thicken with
the flour and butter well mixed, stir until it boils, add lemon juice.


No. 158.--Apple Sauce.

  12 apples.
  12 lumps of sugar.
  1 pint water.
  1 ounce fresh butter.
  3 or 4 cloves, according to taste.

Peel, core, and slice the apples; dissolve the sugar in the water, using
an enamelled stewpan; place in the apples and cloves. Simmer gently
until the apples are quite tender. Rub through a hair sieve with a
wooden spoon, return to the stewpan, stir in the butter, and continue
stirring until thoroughly incorporated, when it is ready for serving.


No. 159.--Asparagus Sauce.

  20 heads of asparagus.
  ½ pint white sauce.
  Pepper and salt to taste.
  Spinach colouring.

Cut away the white portion of the asparagus, and tie the green into a
bundle; boil in salted water for about thirty minutes or until tender,
but not broken; then lift out, and place on a board and cut off the
tips, rub the remainder through a hair sieve into the white sauce; then
stir in the tips, also a few drops of spinach colouring, and it is ready
for use.

Note.--When rubbing the asparagus through the sieve, it will be found
that it adheres to the outer side, whence it must be removed with a
spoon.


No. 160.--Béchamel Sauce.

  1 shalot or small onion.
  3 sprigs of parsley.
  24 peppercorns.
  1 pint milk.
  1 ounce butter.
  1 ounce flour.
  1 bay leaf.
  1 teaspoon sweet herbs.
  A very little mace.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  2 yolks of eggs.

Simmer the seasonings in the milk for three-quarters of an hour, strain,
add the butter and flour, which have been previously mixed, stir until
the sauce thickens, add the beaten yolks of eggs, and it is ready for
use. Care must be taken not to allow the sauce to boil after the eggs
have been added.


No. 161.--Curry Sauce.

  ½ pint soaked lentils.
  1 shalot or small onion.
  1 small turnip.
  1 teaspoon curry powder.
  1 small carrot.
  1 pint water.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 ounce each flour and butter.

Slice the vegetables and boil them with the lentils for one hour, add
salt and strain; mix the flour, butter, and curry powder well on a
plate, place in an enamelled saucepan, pour in the liquor, and stir
until it boils.

Note.--This sauce is suitable for curried eggs, savoury rice balls,
etc.


No. 162.--Curry Sauce.

Another way.

  1 large onion.
  2 ounces of butter.
  ½ ounce of flour.
  ½ pint water.
  2 teaspoons of curry powder.
  Salt to taste.

Slice and fry the onion in butter until nicely brown, then stir in the
flour and curry powder, and mix all well together; add water and salt,
and boil for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring very frequently. Strain
before serving.


No. 163.--Curry Sauce à Brazil.

  2 ounces Brazil nuts.
  2 ounces butter.
  ½ ounce brown flour.
  3 ounces tomatoes.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  4 teaspoons curry powder.
  ½ pint brown stock.
  3 onions sliced.

Shell the nuts and pound them in a mortar. Fry the onions in one and a
half ounces of butter until slightly brown; add the nuts, salt, curry
powder, stock, and tomatoes sliced; simmer for one hour. Strain and
thicken with half an ounce each of butter and brown flour mixed.


No. 164.--German Sauce.

  ½ pint sauce Tournée No. 182.
  The yolks of 2 eggs.

Strain the yolks and add them to the sauce; stir carefully over a
moderate heat until it simmers, but on no account must it boil or the
eggs will curdle. When it thickens (about one minute) it is done. This
is a very rich sauce.


No. 165.--Haricot Bean Sauce.

  1 pint soaked haricot beans.
  1½ pints water.
  1 onion.
  ½ ounce each flour and butter.
  ¾ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon mixed herbs.
  1 inch cinnamon.
  1 dozen peppercorns.

Boil altogether for two hours (excepting salt, which must be added
later), the seasonings being tied up in a little piece of muslin so as
to be easily removed; strain and thicken with the paste of flour and
butter, stirring over the fire until it boils.


No. 166.--Lentil Sauce.

  ½ pint soaked lentils.
  ½ pint water.
  ½ pint tomato juice.
  1 onion.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  24 peppercorns.
  A pinch of mixed herbs.
  ½ ounce flour.
  ½ ounce butter.

Simmer the lentils with the peppercorns, herbs, and onion sliced, for
about twenty minutes; add the tomato juice and salt; simmer for another
twenty minutes. Strain, and thicken with the flour and butter.


No. 167.--Lentil Sauce.

  1 pint soaked lentils.
  1½ pints water.
  1 small onion.
  ½ ounce flour.
  ¾ ounce butter.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 dozen peppercorns.
  1 small blade of mace.

Place the lentils in a stewpan with the water and the onion (cut in
four), peppercorns, and mace, tied up in a small piece of muslin. Boil
three-quarters of an hour, remove the flavourings, add salt, and simmer
for another quarter of an hour. Strain, rinse the stewpan, pour back the
sauce, and thicken with the butter and flour.

Note.--The lentils should not be thrown away, but are just ready for
converting into sausages, etc.


No. 168.--Lentil Sauce.

  1½ pints water.
  ½ pint soaked lentils.
  3 carrots.
  1 turnip.
  3 onions.
  2 tomatoes.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.

Slice the vegetables, and boil with the lentils for two hours. Strain
and thicken with the flour and butter.


No. 169.--Mint Sauce.

  4 tablespoons of chopped mint.
  2 tablespoons of sugar (or a little less).
  1 gill vinegar.

Wash and pick over the mint, which must be quite fresh, and chop it
rather fine; then place in a mortar, add the sugar, and pound well
together until thoroughly incorporated; stir in the vinegar, and pour
into the sauce-boat or jar.

Note.--A covered receptacle should be used, and the sauce is improved
by being made some hours before required.


No. 170.--Parsley Sauce.

  1 tablespoon of parsley after chopping.
  ½ pint white sauce.

Take a handful of parsley; and after washing it tie in a bunch and throw
into boiling salted water for two or three minutes, then well drain and
chop very fine. Have ready the sauce, stir in the parsley, and pour into
a hot tureen.


No. 171.--Sauce Piquante.

  1 ounce butter.
  1 ounce flour.
  1 gill water.
  Pepper and salt to taste.

Melt the butter in a small saucepan, and when dissolved shake in the
flour, stirring all the time until the paste is quite smooth; add a
little salt and pepper, and then pour in gradually the water and
vinegar; stir well until the sauce has boiled for a few minutes. It
will then be quite ready.


No. 172.--Sauce Royale.

  1 turnip.
  1 carrot.
  1 onion.
  1 tomato.
  ½ ounce flour.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 pint water.
  ½ teaspoon salt.

Prepare the vegetables, slice them, and fry in an ounce of butter for
five minutes; add water and salt, and simmer gently for one and a half
hours. Strain and thicken with one ounce of butter and the flour.


No. 173.--Salad Sauce.

  ½ pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 onion.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 tablespoon vinegar.
  1 strip lemon peel.
  A tiny piece of mace.
  1 pint water.
  ½ dozen peppercorns.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, then place in it the haricot beans,
onion sliced, mace, lemon peel, peppercorns and water. Boil two hours,
rub through a sieve and allow to cool; then strain again to remove scum,
add vinegar, and pour over salad.


No. 174.--Salad Sauce.

  1 small onion.
  8 slices of beetroot.
  2 tablespoons of vinegar.
  ½ pint haricot bean stock.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ teaspoon Worcester sauce.
  ¼ teaspoon mustard.
  1 teaspoon lemon juice.
  2 teaspoons browned flour.
  Pepper and salt to taste.

Dissolve the butter in a small stewpan, place in the onion sliced and
fry ten minutes; then add stock and beetroot, and simmer for twenty
minutes; add the mustard, sauce, lemon juice, and flour, and simmer five
minutes, stirring all the time; rub through a sieve, and when cold stir
in the vinegar.

This quantity is only sufficient for a small salad.


No. 175.--Salad Sauce.

  1 pint tomato juice.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  1 onion.
  A very small piece each of mace and cinnamon.
  2 tablespoons cooked haricot beans.
  2 tablespoons vinegar.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  1 ounce butter.

Slice the vegetables and fry in the butter for ten minutes; then place
in a stewpan with the tomato juice (tinned will answer the purpose),
mace, cinnamon, salt and pepper. Boil for half an hour, then place in
the beans and simmer for twenty minutes; rub through a sieve, and when
cold stir in the vinegar. It is then ready for use.


No. 176.--Salad Sauce.

  The yolks of two eggs.
  1 gill of milk.
  ½ gill of vinegar.
  A large pinch of salt.
  The same of pepper.

Drop the yolks into a small enamelled stewpan, add the pepper and salt,
and stir well with a wooden spoon; pour in the milk, which should be
just at boiling point, then stir briskly over a gentle heat for about
ten minutes, or until the sauce thickens, but it must on no account be
allowed to boil, or it will curdle. When sufficiently thick, remove from
the fire, stir in the vinegar, and stand on one side to get thoroughly
cold. It is then ready for use.


No. 177.--Sauce Superbe.

  1 large turnip.
  1 large carrot.
  1 large onion.
  1 large tomato.
  1 small stick of celery.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  2 tablespoons pearl barley.
  2 ounces butter.
  1½ pints water.
  { 12 peppercorns.
  { 2 cloves.
  { A very little each of mace and cinnamon, tied in muslin.

Slice the vegetables, except the tomato, and fry in the butter until a
nice brown; place in a stewpan together with the water, barley, salt and
flavourings, and boil three-quarters of an hour. Add tomato sliced,
simmer half an hour, stirring frequently, and strain. If required for
masking, thicken with one ounce each of brown flour and butter.

Note.--The vegetables and barley may be served as a stew, or used in
various ways.


No. 178.--Tomato Sauce.

  1 pound tomatoes.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  1 onion.
  A few peppercorns.
  ¼ pint water.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  2 ounces butter.
  1 ounce flour.

Scald and peel the tomatoes, and slice them (or half a pint of tinned
tomato juice may be used); also slice the carrot, turnip and onion, and
fry altogether in one and a half ounces of butter for ten minutes. Add
water, peppercorns and salt, and stew gently for half an hour. Strain
into a small enamelled saucepan, put in the flour and half an ounce of
butter mixed together, and stir over a moderate heat until it boils.


No. 179.--Tomato Sauce.

Another way.

  ½ pint tomato juice.
  1 small onion.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  6 peppercorns.
  1 ounce flour.
  1 ounce butter.

Slice the onion, and boil it in the tomato juice with the peppercorns
and salt for one hour; strain. Mix the flour and butter on a plate with
a knife; when thoroughly incorporated, place in the tomato juice and
stir until it boils.


No. 180.--Tomato and Haricot Bean Sauce.

  1 pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 onion.
  Tomato liquor.
  The seeds of vegetable marrow, if handy, or any odd pieces of vegetable.
  1 ounce flour.
  1 ounce butter.
  1½ pints water.
  ¾ teaspoon salt.

Boil altogether for about two hours; strain, rubbing the beans through
a sieve with a wooden spoon. Add to this an equal quantity of cooked
tomato liquor, which is already seasoned with butter, pepper and salt.
Thicken with the paste of flour and butter, stirring over the fire until
it boils. Be sure that the sauce is sufficiently seasoned before sending
to table.


No. 181.--Tomato Sauce Piquante.

  1½ pounds tomatoes.
  3 middling-sized apples.
  2 small onions.
  ½ gill vinegar.
  1 gill water.
  Pepper and salt to taste.

Slice the tomatoes, onions, and apples into a small stewpan, add water
and vinegar and a little pepper and salt, simmer gently until tender,
rub through a hair sieve, re-warm and serve.

Note.--Should the liquor boil away too soon, a little more water may be
added as required.


No. 182.--Sauce Tournée.

  1 pint white stock.
  A large sprig of parsley.
  6 button mushrooms chopped.
  1 large onion.

Simmer altogether for half an hour, then strain very carefully. If
desired very rich, a dessertspoonful of cream may be placed in the
tureen and the sauce poured over gradually, stirring all the time.


No. 183.--Vegetable Sauce.

  1 carrot.
  1 onion.
  1 turnip.
  A little celery.
  1 ounce flour.
  1 ounce butter.
  1½ pints water.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  { 1 dozen peppercorns.
  { 1 inch stick of cinnamon.
  { 1 teaspoon mixed herbs.

Prepare the vegetables, cut them up in small pieces, place in a saucepan
with the water, salt and flavourings, simmer for one hour; strain,
replace in the saucepan, which should have been rinsed, and thicken with
flour and butter, or if a little cold boiled rice is handy it may be
substituted for the flour, and should be added with one ounce of butter
to the sauce five minutes before it is strained. A teaspoonful of lemon
juice added the last thing will give additional piquancy to the sauce.

Note.--This quantity will make about three-quarters of a pint of sauce.


No. 184.--White Sauce.

  1 ounce butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  ¼ pint each milk and water.
  A pinch of salt.

Mix the flour and butter well together on a plate with a knife, place
this paste in a small enamelled saucepan, add salt and milk, and stir
over the fire until it is perfectly smooth and has boiled for one
minute. It is then ready for use.


No. 185.--Rich White Sauce.

  1½ ounces butter.
  ½ ounce flour.
  Yolk of one egg.
  ¼ pint each milk and water.
  A pinch of salt.

Prepare sauce same as No. 184, and stand the saucepan on one side for
ten minutes, then drop into it the yolk of an egg, and stir over a
gentle heat for a few minutes, but on no account allow it to boil again,
or the sauce will curdle.




SALADS.


No. 186.--Beetroot Salad.

  2 medium-sized beets.
  Hard-boiled yolk of 1 egg.
  Tablespoon chopped watercress.
  Pepper and salt to taste.
  Sauce No. 176.

Peel and slice the beets (about a quarter of an inch thick), and pile
the slices in a glass dish or bowl, sprinkle with the watercress and
yolk of egg rubbed through a wire sieve, and pour the sauce round the
base.


No. 187.--Cabbage Salad.

  1 nice cabbage, or sufficient young greens to make a dish.

Boil the cabbage in the usual way. When cooked, after thoroughly
extracting all the water, stand on one side to get quite cold. Place in
a salad bowl or glass dish, and pour over it half a pint of salad sauce
No. 173.


No. 188.--Carrot Salad.

  1 dozen young carrots.
  Water.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 strip lemon peel.

Scrape the carrots and throw them into cold water; then place them in a
saucepan with sufficient water to cover, with salt and lemon peel. Boil
half an hour or until tender, place them on a board, cut into thick
slices, which place in salad sauce No. 176; gently toss them in this
till each piece is covered with the sauce, then turn them into a dish or
bowl, and garnish with sprigs of watercress.


No. 189.--Cucumber Salad.

  1 medium-sized cucumber.
  1 ounce butter.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  2 tablespoons water.
  A little grated nutmeg.
  Sauce No. 174.

Peel and slice the cucumber (about quarter inch thick), and if not very
young remove the seeds, place the slices in a stewpan together with the
water, butter, salt and nutmeg. Simmer until tender, leaving the lid off
so as to reduce the liquor. Arrange the slices in a dish, taking care
not to break them, sprinkle with the pepper, pour over the sauce, and do
not serve until perfectly cold.


No. 190.--Haricot Bean Salad.

  ½ pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 pint of water.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  A little grated nutmeg.
  ½ pint Sauce No. 174.

Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, place in the beans and
water, and boil one and a half hours; add salt and boil another half
hour. When done, strain (saving the liquor), and turn the beans into a
basin containing half an ounce of oiled butter and the nutmeg. Stir the
beans about carefully, and then place them in a dish or salad bowl;
pour the sauce over, and stand on one side to get thoroughly cold.


No. 191.--Onion Salad.

  2 large Spanish onions.
  1 strip of lemon peel.
  ½ dozen peppercorns.
  Sauce No. 176.

Peel and quarter the onions, and boil them in salted water with the
peppercorns and lemon peel. When quite tender, lift them out and place
on one side to drain and get cold. When quite cold, place them in a dish
or bowl, pour half the sauce over, and reserve the remainder to pour
over just before sending to table.


No. 192.--Potato Salad.

  4 good-sized cold potatoes.
  1 tablespoon of chopped watercress.
  ½ pint Sauce No. 175.

The potatoes may either be boiled in their skins or peeled; in the first
way they will be the better flavoured and more nourishing, in the latter
a better colour. They must be taken up carefully directly they are
tender, and not allowed to break up at all. Cut into slices about half
an inch thick, stamp out into fancy shapes and arrange prettily in a
small bowl or dish; sprinkle them with the watercress, which should have
been thoroughly washed in salted and rinsed in fresh water; then pour
over the sauce.

This salad, which is generally much appreciated, will be found a very
useful way of using up cold potatoes.


No. 193.--Sea Kale Salad.

  6 or 8 heads of kale.
  Sauce No. 176.

Boil the kale until tender in salted water. When quite done, strain, and
stand on one side to get cold. Cut into pieces about one inch long,
place in a dish or bowl, pour over half the sauce, and the remainder
just before sending to table.


No. 194.--Vegetable Salad.

  4 young carrots.
  4 young potatoes.
  1 shalot.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  3 tomatoes.
  1 teaspoon minced watercress
  ½ pint water.
  1 tablespoon vinegar.

Scrape the carrots and potatoes very clean, and stew them gently until
tender in the vinegar, salt and water, but on no account must they be
allowed to break. When done, take up carefully and place on a board to
cool. Scald the tomatoes by plunging them first into boiling water and
then into cold; remove the skins and seeds and cut into small slices.
When the vegetables are quite cold, cut them up into ornamental shapes,
and arrange them with the tomatoes and shalot very finely minced in a
salad bowl, pour over a Mayonnaise sauce or salad sauce No. 176, and
sprinkle the watercress on the top. Hard-boiled eggs may be added if
liked.




PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC.


No. 195.--Alexandra Pie.

  1 pint soaked haricot beans.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  2 onions.
  ½ pint liquor.
  1 ounce butter.
  ½ pound mashed potatoes.
  2 ounces bread crumbs.
  1 egg.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 quart water.

Slice the carrot, turnip and onions, boil them with the beans one and a
half hours, add salt and boil half an hour, strain, turn the beans and
vegetables on to a large plate and place on one side to cool. Dissolve
the butter in a frying pan, and fry the beans and vegetables until
slightly browned; turn into a pie dish, pour over the liquor which was
strained off, place in the mashed potatoes, and lastly cover with the
egg and bread crumbs well mixed. The white and yolk should be beaten
separately. Bake in a rather hot oven until a nice brown.


No. 196.--Asparagus Pudding.

  40 heads of asparagus.
  1½ ounces flour.
  2 ounces butter.
  4 eggs.
  1 tablespoon milk.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  A little pepper.

Place the flour and butter in a basin and beat them thoroughly, then add
the salt, pepper, milk, the eggs well beaten, and the tender green part
of the asparagus cut very small; stir all well together, then pour into
a well-buttered mould or basin, and steam for one and a half hours. Turn
out, and serve with asparagus sauce poured over.


No. 197.--Baked Batter.

  3 ounces flour.
  2 eggs.
  ½ pint milk.
  1 ounce butter.
  A pinch of salt.

Place the flour and salt in a basin, beat up the eggs in another basin;
add half the butter to the milk, and place in the oven for a few minutes
to allow the butter to dissolve, then add the milk to the eggs and pour
on to the flour, stir briskly with a wooden spoon, grease a baking tin
or dish with the remainder of the butter, pour in the batter, and bake
in a rather hot oven for half an hour.


No. 198.--Whole Meal Biscuits.

  4 ounces whole meal flour.
  2 ounces white flour.
  1 egg.
  ½ teaspoon baking powder.
  1½ ounces butter.
  1½ ounces sugar.
  ½ tablespoon golden syrup.

Mix the two flours, the butter, baking powder, and sugar well together
on the paste-board; make a hole in the centre into which break the egg,
and pour in the syrup, then mix with the hand until all be thoroughly
incorporated. Roll the paste very thin, stamp out the required size,
prick over with a fork, and bake in a brisk oven until crisp.


No. 199.--Cherry Tartlets.

  1 pound cherries.
  ¼ pound white sugar.
  ½ pint water.
  Short paste.

Place the sugar and water in an enamelled stewpan over a gentle heat;
remove the stalks, and place the cherries in this syrup; boil gently
until tender, removing the scum as it rises. Have ready one dozen little
tartlet tins, line them with the paste, bake for ten minutes, then fill
them with cherries and a little syrup, and finish baking.


No. 200.--Chestnut Cakes.

  1 pound chestnuts.
  2 eggs.
  2 teaspoons castor sugar.
  2½ ounces butter.

Boil the chestnuts half an hour, strain, and after removing shells and
skins, rub them through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon. Mix the sugar
and two ounces of the butter to a cream, add the chestnuts, flour and
eggs well beaten, and stir all well together. Take a tin greased with
the remaining half ounce of butter, place the mixture in it in the
shape of little hills, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty
minutes; or the mixture may be spread over the tin in a thin layer, and
when done stamped out into fancy shapes.


No. 201.--French Plum Pasties.

  6 ounces whole meal flour.
  2 ounces white flour.
  3 ounces butter.
  A little water.
  Stewed French plums.
  1 egg.

Make a paste of the flour, butter, water, and half the egg; roll out
rather thin; cut into four-inch squares, place a French plum, having
removed the stone, in the centre of each square, moisten the edges with
a little water, fold them over, brush over with the remainder of the
beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes.

Note.--They may be eaten either hot or cold, and will be found
particularly suitable for travelling, etc.


No. 202.--Potted Haricot Beans.

(See POTTED LENTILS.)


No. 203.--Lentil Pudding.

  1 tablespoon soaked lentils.
  ¼ pint water.
  2 tablespoons soaked sago.
  ½ ounce butter.
  1 turnip.
  1 carrot.
  1 shalot.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  Paste for crust No. 207.

Slice the carrot and turnip, mince the shalot, and place them in a
stewpan with the lentils, butter, and water; boil for about half an
hour, add salt and sago, and stir for three minutes. Line a small
pudding basin with paste, pour in the mixture, cover with more paste,
tie a floured cloth over, and boil for three hours.


No. 204.--Potted Lentils.

  1 quart soaked lentils.
  1 quart water.
  4 ounces butter.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  A pinch of sweet herbs.
  6 cloves.
  6 allspice.
  12 peppercorns.
  1 inch cinnamon stick.
  A piece of mace size of a shilling.

Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, then place in all the ingredients
except the salt. Remove the scum as it rises. Boil one hour, add salt,
boil again half an hour, then remove the lid and stir constantly for
another half hour, or until the lentils are reduced to a thick pulp. Rub
through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon until only the husks remain.
When quite cold, place in a dish or jar, and pour oiled butter over the
top to exclude the air. It will keep good for some days.

Note.--The thick remaining in the sieve may be re-boiled for stock.


No. 205.--Baked Mushroom Pudding.

  ½ pound haricot bean pulp.
  6 or 8 button mushrooms.
  1 shalot.
  2 teaspoons of Worcester or other sauce.
  3 eggs.
  1 ounce butter.
  Pepper and salt to taste.

To obtain the pulp, rub about three-quarters of a pound of well-cooked
beans through a wire sieve, add the mushrooms and shalot very finely
minced, stir in the yolks of the eggs reserving the whites, add
seasoning if required; grease a deep tin or pie dish with the butter,
pour in the mixture, and bake for about half an hour, or until set. In
the meantime beat the whites to a stiff froth, and after beating add
the sauce, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, arrange the froth prettily
over it, and return to the oven to set the egg. Serve quickly.

This pudding may be steamed instead of baked, but the whites of eggs
will not then be required.


No. 206.--Boiled Mushroom Pudding.

  Mushrooms.
  Pudding crust.

Butter a pudding basin, line it with paste, fill with mushrooms, add
pepper and salt to taste (about one teaspoonful of salt and half of
pepper to one dozen good sized mushrooms), adding gravy made by stewing
the peel and stalks of the mushrooms for half an hour in sufficient
water to cover them, and strained before using. Cover with paste, flour
a cloth and tie firmly over, and boil for three hours.


No. 207.--Plain Paste for Puddings.

  ¾ pound flour.
  6 ounces butter.
  Rather less than ½ pint water.
  A pinch of salt.
  1 teaspoon baking powder.

Pass the flour through a sieve on to a board, mix with it the salt and
baking powder, and thoroughly rub in the butter. Make a hole in the
centre of the paste, pour in the water, stirring it into the paste at
the same time with the other hand. When sufficiently moist to adhere in
the shape of a ball, roll out to the required thickness. If cooked in a
basin the pudding will require to boil for at least three hours; if in a
cloth, less time will be found sufficient.


No. 208.--Puff Paste.

  ½ pound Vienna flour.
  6 ounces butter.
  1 egg.
  ½ tea-cup cold water.
  1 teaspoon lemon juice.

Place the flour in the middle of a paste-board, and lightly roll the
butter in it, then divide the butter into two equal parts, and place one
half on one side. Chop the other half in the flour, then make a hole in
the centre, in which place the lemon juice, the egg (whole), and the
water; mix well together, and put in a cool place for about fifteen
minutes. Then roll it out half an inch thick. Place the other half of
the butter in the centre, fold over two sides of the paste, and roll out
again; this latter counts as the first roll, and the paste must be
rolled out five times in all, allowing an interval of ten minutes
between each roll. The paste should then be left for at least two hours
in a cool place with a damp cloth over it before being used.

Note.--In warm weather, the butter, egg, and water should be kept in a
basin with ice for at least half an hour before using.


No. 209.--Potato Pie.

  4 or 6 potatoes, according to size.
  Cooked haricot beans.
  1 onion.
  About one tablespoon of chopped mint or parsley.
  Puff or short paste.

Parboil the potatoes, slice and lay them in a pie-dish with the onion
sliced, as many beans as are liked, and a few tablespoons of the liquor.
Sprinkle over the parsley or mint, cover with paste, and bake.


No. 210.--Potato Pudding.

  4 or 6 potatoes, according to size.
  1 onion or shalot.
  1 gill of milk.
  2 hard boiled eggs.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  1 teaspoon mixed sweet herbs.
  Paste for crust No. 207.

Boil the potatoes, onion and egg separately for fifteen minutes, then
slice and mix well together, sprinkling in the salt and herbs. Line a
middling sized pudding basin with paste, fill with the mixture, pour in
the milk, cover with paste, wetting round the edges so that they join
well, tie a cloth over, plunge it into a large saucepan half full of
boiling water, and boil rather fast for three and a half hours.

Note.--A vegetable sauce should be served with the pudding.


No. 211.--Boiled Rice.

For Curries, etc.

  About 12 ounces of rice.
  A pinch of salt.
  Water.

Place the rice in a saucepan, cover with cold water and bring to the
boil, then strain away the water and return the rice to the saucepan,
add fresh cold water and the salt, and boil for fifteen minutes, then
strain it through a colander again.

Stand the colander containing the rice on a plate, cover it with a cloth
and place in a warm (not hot) oven for two hours. Stir the rice
occasionally with a fork.


No. 212.--Summer Pie.

  ½ peck green peas.
  1 cabbage lettuce.
  1 onion.
  1 egg.
  1 tablespoon chopped mint.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  Puff or short paste.

Shell the peas, and boil them in a little water with the salt and onion
sliced. Well wash the lettuce, shred it, place in a pie-dish, and when
the peas are done, add them, including the liquor in which they have
been boiled (if there be more liquor than the pie-dish will conveniently
hold, it should be added after the pie is cooked). Sprinkle the mint
over the top, cover with paste in the usual way, brush over with the
beaten egg, and bake in a rather hot oven for about three-quarters of an
hour.


No. 213.--Vermicelli and Tomato Pudding.

  6 ounces cooked vermicelli.
  6 ounces mashed potato.
  2 shalots, or a small onion.
  2 eggs.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ¼ teaspoon pepper.
  2 tablespoons tomato juice.
  1 ounce butter.

Boil the shalot or onion ten minutes, then mince finely and mix well
with the vermicelli, potatoes, salt, pepper, tomato and yolks of
eggs, beat the whites and add them last, then pour the mixture into a
well-buttered pudding basin, and steam one and a half hours, or it may
be baked.




FRUITS.


No. 214.--Purée of Apples.

Very suitable for young children.

  ½ pint water.
  24 lumps sugar.
  6 apples.
  A little cinnamon or cloves.

Dissolve the sugar in the water, then add the cloves and apples (which
should not be peeled). Simmer for twenty or thirty minutes. Then rub
through a sieve with a wooden spoon.


No. 215.--Stewed Apples.

  6 or 8 apples, according to size.
  1 pint water.
  40 lumps sugar.
  A few cloves.

Dissolve the sugar in the water, peel and core the apples (but do not
cut them), and place them with the cloves in the syrup, stew very gently
for about ten minutes, then turn the apples and simmer for another ten
minutes, or until they are tender, but not broken. When done, place them
in a pretty dish, and fill the hollow part with jam or custard. Reduce
the syrup by boiling it over the fire for a few minutes with the lid
off, strain over the apples, and allow to cool before serving.


No. 216.--Apples Stewed à la Gloire.

  10 or 12 stewing apples.
  1½ pints of water.
  ½ pound loaf sugar.
  1 dozen crystallized cherries.
  2 bananas.
  { 1 strip of lemon peel.
  { 12 cloves.
  { 1 small stick of cinnamon tied in muslin.

Place the water, sugar, and flavourings in a large enamelled stewpan,
and stand over a gentle heat until the sugar is dissolved. Peel the
apples, carefully remove the cores, leaving the apples whole; place them
in the syrup, and simmer until perfectly tender, but not broken. When
done, lift them out into a glass dish (which should have been previously
warmed to prevent cracking), press them slightly with a spoon so as to
make a smooth surface slightly raised in the centre, and stand them on
one side to get cold. When the apples are cold, strain the syrup into a
small stewpan, and reduce over a moderate heat for fifteen or twenty
minutes. Cut the bananas into quarter-inch slices, stamp out the seeds,
and arrange the rings on the apple, placing a cherry in the middle of
each ring. Pour the syrup over the top, when, if it be sufficiently
reduced, it will immediately set, and form a very ornamental as well as
delicious dish.


No. 217.--Stewed French Plums.

  1 pound French plums.
  6 or 8 lumps of sugar.
  Water.

Wash the plums by placing them in a sieve or strainer and pouring hot
water over them; then place them in a stewpan, cover with water, and
boil very gently for half an hour; drop in the sugar and simmer for
another half hour. When done, remove the lid and stand the stewpan on
one side for the plums to cool. Pile them in a glass dish, and pour the
syrup over.


No. 218.--Masked Pears.

  6 stewing pears.
  ¾ pint water.
  1 egg.
  6 tablespoons bread crumbs.
  24 lumps sugar.
  1 inch cinnamon stick.
  Jam.
  ½ ounce butter.

Make a syrup of the sugar and water, peel and hollow the pears (which
must remain whole), place them in the syrup, and stew gently one hour or
until tender; lift them out very carefully on to a plate and allow to
cool. Fill them with jam, roll in egg and bread crumbs, place in a
buttered dish, and bake for about twenty minutes. In the meantime, place
the cinnamon in the syrup and boil until it is reduced, place the pears
in a pretty dish, pour the syrup over them through a strainer, and allow
to cool.


No. 219.--Stewed Pears.

  1 dozen stewing pears.
  1 quart water.
  ½ pound loaf sugar.
  2 inches cinnamon stick.

Peel the pears carefully and remove the cores, but leave them whole.
Dissolve the sugar in the water, using an enamelled stewpan, place the
pears in this and allow to simmer for two hours, keeping the lid on.
Remove the stewpan from the fire, and stand it on one side _without_ the
lid until the pears are perfectly cold, then carefully lift them out
(they should be a beautiful red colour) into a glass dish. Strain the
syrup into a small stewpan, boil over a good heat for about fifteen
minutes (watching it carefully the latter portion), reduce to three
tablespoons, pour over the pears, and allow to thoroughly cool before
serving.


No. 220.--Early Rhubarb Stewed.

  5 or 6 large sticks of rhubarb.
  30 lumps sugar.
  ½ ounce butter.
  1 gill milk.

Dissolve the sugar in the milk, then add the butter and rhubarb cut up.
Stew gently over a moderate heat until tender.


No. 221.--Strawberries in Syrup.

  1 pound strawberries.
  1 pound cherries.
  ½ pound loaf sugar.
  1 pint water.

Pound the cherries in a mortar, crushing as many of the stones as
possible. Place them with the water and sugar in a stewpan, and boil one
hour without the lid. Strain the syrup into a small stewpan, and reduce
until it commences to thicken, then place in the strawberries (first
removing the stalks), and shake them so that they become coated with the
syrup. Lift them out into a glass dish, reduce the syrup again until it
becomes quite thick, pour over the strawberries, and allow to get quite
cold.




INDEX.

(The numbers given refer to the recipes.)


Soups.

  Artichoke. 1.

  Asparagus. 2.

  Brown. 3.

  Carrot. 4.

  Celery. 5.

  Chestnut. 6.

  French bean. 7.

  Green kale. 8.

  Haricot bean. 9.

  Lentil. 10.
    broth. 11.
    tea. 12.

  Mulligatawny. 13.

  Oatmeal. 14.

  Onion. 15.

  Parsnip. 16.

  Pea. 17.
    dried green. 18.
    fresh. 19.

  Potato. 20.

  Rice. 21.

  Sea kale. 22.

  Semolina. 23.

  Stock, brown. 24.
    white. 25.

  Tomato. 26.

  Turnip. 27.

  Vegetable. 28.
    marrow. 29.

  Vermicelli. 30.


Stews.

  Brighton. 31.

  Carrot. 32.

  Cucumber. 33.

  Cucumber and beetroot. 34.
    with sauce piquante. 35.
    braized, with tomato sauce. 36.

  Mushrooms. 37.

  Potato. 38.
    baked. 39.

  Pea, fresh green. 40.
    and lettuce. 41.
    and potato. 42.

  Haricot bean. 43, 44, 45.
    ragoût. 46.
    and green pea. 47.

  Irish. 48.

  Lentil, with forcemeat cutlets. 49.

  Rice. 50.

  Spanish onion. 51.

  Tennis. 52.

  Tomato ragoût. 53.

  Vegetable, rich baked. 54.
    ragoût. 55.
    marrow. 56.


Fritters, Etc.

  Almond, savoury. 57.

  Batter. 58.

  Brazil rissoles. 59.

  Egg and tomato. 60.

  Golden marbles. 61.

  Haricot bean croquettes. 62.

  Kromskies. 63.

  Mushroom croquettes. 64.

  Potato. 65.

  Savoury. 66.
    queen. 67.

  Semolina, sweet. 68.

  Vermicelli and cheese. 69, 70.


Savouries.

  Asparagus and egg on toast. 71.

  Batter, rolled, stuffed with forcemeat. 72.
    boiled. 73.

  Cheese mixture. 74.

  Chestnuts, with Maitre d'Hotel sauce. 75.

  Eggs on toast. 76.

  Forcemeat. 77.
    balls. 78.

  Haricot beans on bread. 79.
    on toast. 80.
    with eggs. 81.
    garnished. 82.
    mould. 83.

  Lentil cakes. 84.

  Mixture. 85, 86.

  Mushrooms à la Française. 87.

  Pancakes. 88.

  Peas, green, and carrots on toast. 89.

  Potato, baked, with sage and onion. 90.
    casserole of. 91.
    and celery balls. 92.
    and eggs with celery sauce. 93.
    fried with eggs. 94.
    olives. 95.
    pyramids. 96.
    stuffed. 97, 98.

  Rice balls. 99.

  Rissoles. 100.

  Sage and onion patties. 101.

  Sausages. 102.
    in batter. 103.
    Brussels sprout. 104.
    curry flavour. 105.
    lentil and tomato. 106.
    savoury. 107.
    semolina. 108.

  Semolina. 109.
    and cheese. 110.

  Spanish onions stuffed. 111.

  Spinach with peas and tomatoes. 112.

  Surprise balls. 113.

  Toad-in-the-hole. 114.

  Tomatoes in batter, plain. 115.
    in batter, seasoned. 116.
    and eggs on toast. 117.

  Turnips with poached eggs. 118.

  Vegetable marrow with potato balls. 119.
    marrow rings with tomato batter. 120.
    marrow stuffed. 121, 122.

  Vermicelli and cheese. 123.


Soufflés.

  Bread. 124.

  Cauliflower. 125.

  Cauliflower and potato. 126.

  Garnie. 127.

  Moulded. 128.

  Haricot bean. 129.
    with Béchamel sauce. 130.
    and spinach. 131.

  Lentil. 132.

  Pea, fresh green. 133.

  Petites. 134.

  Tomato. 135.


Curries.

  Beetroot and cucumber. 136.

  Eggs. 137.

  Haricot beans. 138, 139.

  Lentils. 140.

  Tomatoes. 141.

  Turnips. 142.


Vegetables.

  Artichokes with sauce royale. 143.

  Beetroot, fried. 144.

  Brussels sprouts. 145.

  French beans. 146.

  Greens, a nice way. 147.
    tasty. 148.

  Haricot beans. 149.

  Mushrooms, baked. 150.

  Peas, green. 151.

  Potatoes, mashed. 152.
    new, fried. 153.

  Salsify. 154.

  Tomatoes. 155.


Sauces.

  À la bonne femme. 156.

  À la petite cuisinière. 157.

  Apple. 158.

  Asparagus. 159.

  Béchamel. 160.

  Curry. 161, 162.
    à Brazil. 163.

  German. 164.

  Haricot bean. 165.

  Lentil. 166, 167, 168.

  Mint. 169.

  Parsley. 170.

  Piquante. 171.

  Royale. 172.

  Salad. 173, 174, 175, 176.

  Superbe. 177.

  Tomato. 178, 179.
    and haricot bean. 180.
    piquante. 181.

  Tournée. 182.

  Vegetable. 183.

  White. 184.
    rich. 185.


Salads.

  Beetroot. 186.

  Cabbage. 187.

  Carrot. 188.

  Cucumber. 189.

  Haricot bean. 190.

  Onion. 191.

  Potato. 192.

  Sea kale. 193.

  Vegetable. 194.


Pies, Puddings, Etc.

  Alexandra pie. 195.

  Asparagus pudding. 196.

  Batter, baked. 197.

  Biscuits, whole meal. 198.

  Cherry tartlets. 199.

  Chestnut cakes. 200.

  French plum pasties. 201.

  Haricot beans, potted. 202.

  Lentil pudding. 203.

  Lentils, potted. 204.

  Mushroom pudding, baked. 205.
    boiled. 206.

  Paste, plain. 207.
    puff. 208.

  Potato pie. 209.
    pudding. 210.

  Rice, boiled, plain. 211.

  Summer pie. 212.

  Vermicelli and tomato pudding. 213.


Fruits.

  Apples, purée of. 214.
    stewed. 215.
    stewed à la gloire. 216.

  French plums. 217.

  Pears, masked. 218.
    stewed. 219.

  Rhubarb, early, stewed. 220.

  Strawberries in syrup. 221.




         CHISWICK PRESS:--C. WHITTINGHAM AND CO., TOOKS COURT,
                            CHANCERY LANE.




[ Transcriber's Note:

  The following is a list of corrections made to the original. The first
  line is the original line, the second the corrected one.

No. 41--Green Pea and Lettuce Stew.
No. 41.--Green Pea and Lettuce Stew.

together all the ingredients for the stuffing, cut the pototoes
together all the ingredients for the stuffing, cut the potatoes

  2 teapoons sage.  [in No. 98]
  2 teaspoons sage.

Note.--Rice, semolina. etc., may be used in place of the vermicelli.
Note.--Rice, semolina, etc., may be used in place of the vermicelli.

  3 tablespoons minced spinach
  3 tablespoons minced spinach.

No. 139--Curried Haricot Beans.
No. 139.--Curried Haricot Beans.

Note--The rice may be omitted.
Note.--The rice may be omitted.

hour, Strain, add pepper and salt, and thicken the juice with the flour
hour. Strain, add pepper and salt, and thicken the juice with the flour

No 162.--Curry Sauce.
No. 162.--Curry Sauce.

  Hard-boiled yoke of 1 egg.
  Hard-boiled yolk of 1 egg.
]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of New Vegetarian Dishes, by Mrs. Bowdich

